=== PAGE 1 ===


=== PAGE 2 ===
Table of Contents

目录

Acknowledgements

致谢

Introduction

介绍

Chapter 1 - Principles and Practices of Herbalism

第一章 - 草药学的原理和实践

USING HERBS NATURALLY

自然使用草药

THE MANY FACES OF HERBAL MEDICINE

草药的多种面貌

A FEW WORDS ABOUT TOXICITY

关于毒性的几句话

WHEN TO TAKE YOUR PET TO THE VET

何时带您的宠物去看兽医

BASICS OF HERBAL PREPARATIONS

草药制剂的基础知识

THE CONNECTION BETWEEN HERBS AND DIET

草药和饮食之间的联系

USING NUTRITIVE HERBS AS DIETARY SUPPLEMENTS

使用营养草药作为膳食补充剂

THE ETHICAL USE OF HERBS

草药的合乎道德的使用

Chapter 2 - Materia Medica

第二章本草

ALEALEA

爱丽雅

ALOE

芦荟

ARNICA

山金车

ASTRAGALUS

黄芪

=== PAGE 3 ===
BEE BALM

蜂香膏

BLACK WALNUT

黑胡桃

BORAGE

琉璃苣

BUGLEWEED

黄花草

BURDOCK

牛蒡

CALENDULA

金盏花

CATNIP

CAYENNE

辣椒

CHAMOMILE

洋甘菊

CHAPARRAL

丛林

CHICKWEED

繁缕

CLEAVERS

切肉刀

COLTSFOOT

款冬

COMFREY

紫草

CORN SILK

玉米须

COUCH GRASS

沙发草

DANDELION

蒲公英

DILL

莳萝

ECHINACEA

紫锥菊

ELECAMPANE

土木香

FENNEL

茴香

=== PAGE 4 ===
FEVERFEW

发烧

FLAX

亚麻

GARLIC

蒜

GINKGO

银杏

GOLDENROD

金棒

GOLDENSEAL

金印章

GOTU KOLA

积雪草

GRAVELROOT

砾根

GRINDELIA

格林迪莉亚

HAWTHORN

山楂

HOP

HORSETAIL

马尾

JUNIPER

杜松

LAVENDER

薰衣草

LICORICE

甘草

MARSHMALLOW

棉花糖

MILK THISTLE

水飞蓟

MULLEIN

毛蕊花

NETTLE

荨麻

OAT

OREGON GRAPE

俄勒冈葡萄

OXEYE DAISY

=== PAGE 5 ===
牛眼菊

PARSLEY

香菜

PLANTAIN

芭蕉

RASPBERRY

覆盆子

RED CLOVER

红三叶草

ROSE

玫瑰

ROSEMARY

迷迭香

SAGE

智者

SAINT-JOHN’S-WORT

圣约翰草

SHEPHERD’S PURSE

荠菜

SKULLCAP

骷髅帽

SLIPPERY ELM

榆

THYME

百里香

UVA URSI

紫外可见分光光度计

VALERIAN

缬草

WORMWOOD

蒿

YARROW

西洋蓍草

YELLOW DOCK

黄色码头

YUCCA

丝兰

SUPPLEMENTAL HERB LIST

补充药草清单

=== PAGE 6 ===
Chapter 3 - An Herbal Repertory for Animals

第 3 章 - 动物草药库

ANXIETY, NERVOUSNESS, AND BEHAVIORAL PROBLEMS

焦虑、紧张和行为问题

ARTHRITIS AND HIP DYSPLASIA

关节炎和髋关节发育不良

CANCER

癌症

CARDIOVASCULAR PROBLEMS

心血管问题

DIGESTIVE SYSTEM PROBLEMS

消化系统问题

EAR PROBLEMS

耳朵问题

ELDERLY ANIMAL CARE

老年动物护理

ENDOCRINE SYSTEM AND RELATED PROBLEMS

内分泌系统及相关问题

EPILEPSY, CONVULSIONS, AND SEIZURES

癫痫、抽搐和癫痫发作

EYE PROBLEMS

眼睛问题

FIRST AID

急救

IMMUNE SYSTEM CARE

免疫系统护理

MOUTH AND NOSE PROBLEMS

口腔和鼻子问题

PARASITE-RELATED PROBLEMS: HOW TO LIVE WITH FLEAS, WORMS, MITES, AND OTHER ...

寄生虫相关问题：如何与跳蚤、蠕虫、螨虫和其他动物共存……

PREGNANCY AND LACTATION

怀孕和哺乳期

RESPIRATORY PROBLEMS

呼吸系统的问题

SKIN PROBLEMS

皮肤问题

URINARY PROBLEMS

泌尿问题

Glossary

=== PAGE 7 ===
词汇表

References

参考

Index

指数

Copyright Page

版权页

=== PAGE 8 ===
Acknowledgments

致谢

It’s funny how a book takes on a life of its own. This one began like most others—first as a compilation of research,

expressed knowledge, and the inspiration and ideas of an author or two. But now after many years have passed and

many thousands of people have read, shared, used, and reflected on the content from its pages, this book has grown

into something much more—something far greater than anything I ever expected. For many, Herbs for Pets has

become a gold standard—the definitive guide to herbs for pets. But it is not the authors, nor even the information

contained in its pages, that stand at the forefront of this book’s resounding success. It’s the growing audiences of pet

loving people who are realizing that the biggest rewards of animal companionship can come only after we learn to

accept and respect the true nature of our animals. Without people like you, this latest edition would not exist. Thank

you.

一本书拥有自己的生命，这很有趣。这篇文章和大多数其他文章一样，首先是研究、表达的知识以及一两

位作者的灵感和想法的汇编。但现在，许多年过去了，成千上万的人阅读、分享、使用和反思了书中的内

容，这本书已经发展得更加丰富——远远超出了我的预期。对于许多人来说，《宠物草药》已成为黄金标

准——宠物草药的权威指南。但这本书取得巨大成功的关键并不是作者，甚至不是书中所包含的信息。越

来越多的爱宠人士意识到，只有在我们学会接受和尊重动物的真实本性之后，动物陪伴才能带来最大的回

报。没有像您这样的人，就不会存在这个最新版本。谢谢。

And once again—thank you to my now ex-wife and forever friend, Mary, who remains one of my foremost

herbalist teachers. Thanks also go to Nancy Kerns, editor of Whole Dog Journal magazine, who throughout the

years has been keeping the “holistic word” alive and visible to so many like-hearted animal lovers. And thanks to

my dear friend Ikuko Kanada, who not only translated this tome into Japanese but also has been at the forefront of a

new natural pet care revolution in Japan; your work brings renewed hope and inspiration to all who truly care about

animal wellness. Thank you to Gail Pope and all of the incredible people at Brighthaven Sanctuary—a place where,

because of you, miracles really do happen.

再次感谢我现在的前妻和永远的朋友玛丽，她仍然是我最重要的草药老师之一。还要感谢《Whole Dog

Journal》杂志的编辑南希·克恩斯 (Nancy Kerns)，多年来，她一直让“整体一词”保持活力，并为许多志同道

合的动物爱好者所熟知。感谢我亲爱的朋友金田育子，她不仅将这本书翻译成日语，而且一直站在日本新

的天然宠物护理革命的最前沿；您的工作为所有真正关心动物健康的人带来了新的希望和灵感。感谢盖尔·

波普 (Gail Pope) 和布莱特黑文庇护所 (Brighthaven Sanctuary) 的所有令人难以置信的人们——因为有你们，

奇迹才真正发生。

A special thanks to all of you who came to our rescue when my home burned in the Montana fires of 2000. There

is absolutely nothing to describe the feelings of love coming from so many people.

特别感谢 2000 年蒙大拿州大火中我的家被烧毁时伸出援手的所有人。绝对没有什么可以形容这么多人的

爱的感觉。

And of course, thank you to all of the wonderful holistic veterinarians and natural pet-care providers who work on

the front lines to bring the gifts of human intellect, love, and compassion to the true innocents of the world: the

animals.

当然，还要感谢所有出色的整体兽医和天然宠物护理人员，他们工作在第一线，将人类的智慧、爱和同

情心的礼物带给世界上真正的无辜者：动物。

—Greg L. Tilford

——格雷格·L·蒂尔福德

I would like to thank and acknowledge my parents, George and Dixie Wulff for allowing me to be who I am and for

letting Uncle Eldon give me my first puppy; Cindy Nicholls, a dear friend; Jan Newman, my cousin and friend:

=== PAGE 9 ===
Jeanie Notti-Fullerton, a dear friend who shares a deep love and devotion for all creatures; to all of my animals past

and present, for sharing their love and lives with me: Mister, Max, Mollie, Cedar, Willow, Stephanie, all gone but in

my heart forever; Sage, the new Heeler in my life; Lili, the new cat in my life; and to Frog (the Doberman) and

Kyra, the Shepherd; to my ex-husband, Greg, who made this book and many things possible, thank you for being a

good friend.

我要感谢并感谢我的父母乔治·武尔夫和迪克西·武尔夫，他们让我成为了现在的我，并让埃尔登叔叔给了我

第一只小狗；辛迪·尼克尔斯，一位亲爱的朋友；简·纽曼（Jan Newman），我的表弟和朋友：珍妮·诺蒂-富

勒顿（Jeanie Notti-Fullerton），一位亲爱的朋友，对所有生物都怀有深深的爱和奉献精神；感谢我过去和现

在所有的动物，感谢他们与我分享他们的爱和生活：Mister、Max、Mollie、Cedar、Willow、Stephanie，他

们都已去世，但永远在我心中；圣人，我生命中的新赫勒；莉莉，我生命中的新猫；还有青蛙（杜宾犬）

和凯拉，牧羊人；感谢我的前夫格雷格，是他让这本书和许多事情成为可能，感谢你成为我的好朋友。

—Mary L. Wulff

—玛丽·L·武尔夫

=== PAGE 10 ===
Introduction

介绍

Herbs and animals have lived together for a long, long time. Millions of years before the first human walked the

earth, creatures large and small were using plants as their primary source of healing. In fact, much of our modern

medicine originates from what early humans learned through observation of wild animals and their instinctive uses

of plants. For instance, we know that Indian tribes of the western United States learned of the powerful antimicrobial

properties of Ligusticum porteri by observing bears ingest and roll in the plants to heal themselves. Even today, the

plant is still known by many as “bear medicine.”

草药和动物一起生活了很长很长一段时间。在第一个人类出现在地球上的数百万年前，大大小小的生物就

开始使用植物作为主要的治疗来源。事实上，我们的现代医学很大程度上源于早期人类通过观察野生动物

及其对植物的本能使用所学到的知识。例如，我们知道，美国西部的印第安部落通过观察熊摄入并在植物

中打滚来治愈自己，了解了藁本的强大抗菌特性。即使在今天，这种植物仍然被许多人称为“熊药”。

In the face of diseases such as AIDS and cancer, modern-day pharmaceutical researchers continue to scour the

remaining wilds of our planet in search of cures, and once again we are turning to the animals for answers.

Zoopharmacognosy, a new discipline of science that investigates how animals use plants to heal themselves, is

attracting attention at leading research universities throughout the world. At the forefront of the zoopharmacognosy

=== PAGE 11 ===
effort are Dr. Eloy Rodriguez, a biochemist specializing in natural products and synthetic chemistry, and Harvard

primatologist Richard Wrangham, who has been studying chimpanzees and gorillas in their native African habitats.

Rodriguez and Wrangham have discovered that the apes have an innate ability to select specific plant species for use

against internal parasites. In fact, not only can the animals select plants that possess specific medicinal compounds

that are effective at expelling their parasites but somehow they know exactly how much plant material is needed to

initiate a cure without causing toxic side effects.

面对艾滋病和癌症等疾病，现代药物研究人员继续在地球上剩余的荒野中寻找治疗方法，我们再次向动

物寻求答案。动物生药学是一门新的科学学科，研究动物如何利用植物来治愈自己，正在吸引世界各地领

先研究大学的关注。走在动物生药学研究前沿的是 Eloy Rodriguez 博士（专门研究天然产物和合成化学的

生物化学家）和哈佛大学灵长类动物学家 Richard Wrangham（一直在非洲本土栖息地研究黑猩猩和大猩

猩）。罗德里格斯和兰厄姆发现，猿类具有选择特定植物物种来对抗体内寄生虫的先天能力。事实上，动

物不仅可以选择含有能有效驱除寄生虫的特定药用化合物的植物，而且它们还确切地知道需要多少植物材

料来启动治疗而不引起毒副作用。

As zoopharmacognosy recaptures our attention and as our respect toward the healing wisdom of animals grows,

our quest for herbal curative answers is becoming more urgent. But we’re faced with a problem. Strains of bacteria

once thought to be conquered are reemerging despite our antibiotics, and healing resources are disappearing faster

than we can discover them. Tens of thousands of acres of wild lands are lost each day to the effects of a growing

human population and the relentless demands we place upon the planet. The Smithsonian Institution and fifteen

other research organizations recently completed a twenty-year study that concluded that at least one in every eight

plant species worldwide are currently at risk of becoming extinct.

随着动物生药学重新引起我们的注意，随着我们对动物治疗智慧的尊重不断增长，我们对草药治疗答案

的追求变得更加紧迫。但我们面临着一个问题。尽管我们使用了抗生素，曾经被认为已被征服的细菌菌株

却重新出现，而治疗资源的消失速度比我们发现它们的速度还要快。由于人口增长和我们对地球的无情要

求，每天都有数万英亩的荒地消失。史密森学会和其他 15 个研究组织最近完成了一项历时 20 年的研究，

得出的结论是，目前全世界至少有八分之一的植物物种面临灭绝的风险。

In North America alone, it is estimated that 29 percent of sixteen thousand plant species are on the verge of

disappearing forever—and with each loss, a vital connecting link between earth and all the creatures who walk her

=== PAGE 12 ===
ground is being broken forever.

据估计，仅在北美，一万六千种植物中有 29% 正处于永远消失的边缘，而随着每一次消失，地球与所有

行走在其土地上的生物之间的重要联系纽带也将永远断裂。

As scientists struggle to find cures before plants are eliminated from the face of the planet, a tremendous “green

revolution” is under way. A growing number of people are coming to realize that much of the healing wisdom we

seek rests not in science and technology but within the ancient healing traditions of nature itself. To access this

awareness, we find ourselves turning to the aboriginal peoples (who adopted healing ways from observing animals)

to relearn ways of healing that have been passed down through hundreds of generations from humankind’s oldest

teachers—the animals.

当科学家们努力在植物从地球表面消失之前找到治疗方法时，一场巨大的“绿色革命”正在进行。越来越

多的人开始意识到，我们寻求的许多治疗智慧并不在于科学和技术，而在于大自然本身的古老治疗传统。

为了获得这种意识，我们发现自己转向原住民（他们通过观察动物而采用了治疗方法）来重新学习从人类

最古老的老师——动物那里传承了数百代的治疗方法。

Ancient cultures knew that healthful living, healing, and good medicine are not gauged by how effectively people

can exploit the medicinal properties of natural resources. Instead, shamans and medicine women of the past saw

human health as an integral part of the living celestial body we have since grown to know as Earth. They knew that

our gravest ills emanate not from what nature bestows upon us but from what we bestow upon nature. This message

is being repeated to us everywhere in the form of ancient bacteria, once thought to be conquered, that are mutating

into stronger, more resistant, more aggressive strains of infectious disease. Vaccines that we once viewed as miracle

medicines are now thought to debilitate the immune system they were designed to support and protect. Heart

disease, cancer, arthritis, osteoporosis, and even psychosis-driven murder are being linked to the stresses of modern

society and the nutrition-depleted foods we eat. Violent rainstorms of unprecedented ferocity wreak havoc as a by-

product of air pollution and the effects of global warming. You may ask, how is all of this relevant to a book about

herbal animal care? The answer: in the most fundamental ways imaginable.

古代文化知道，健康的生活、治疗和良好的医学并不是通过人们如何有效地利用自然资源的药用特性来

衡量的。相反，过去的萨满和女巫医将人类健康视为生命天体不可分割的一部分，我们后来称之为地球。

他们知道，我们最严重的疾病不是源于自然赋予我们的东西，而是源于我们赋予自然的东西。这一信息正

在以古老细菌的形式向我们各处重复，这些细菌一度被认为已被征服，但它们正在变异为更强大、更具抵

抗力、更具攻击性的传染病菌株。我们曾经视为神奇药物的疫苗现在被认为会削弱它们原本支持和保护的

免疫系统。心脏病、癌症、关节炎、骨质疏松症，甚至精神病驱动的谋杀都与现代社会的压力和我们所吃

的营养匮乏的食物有关。作为空气污染和全球变暖影响的副产品，前所未有的猛烈暴雨造成了严重破坏。

您可能会问，所有这些与一本有关草药动物护理的书有什么关系？答案：以可以想象的最基本的方式。

This book introduces you to hundreds of plant medicines that can be used in the daily care of animals. In the first

chapters, you learn the importance of feeding your companion a natural whole-foods diet. Then step by step you are

guided into new levels of self-reliance as you learn to select, prepare, and apply natural remedies, many of which

may be as accessible as your own backyard, on behalf of your companion animal. To help overcome possible

skepticism, we have provided references to hundreds of cutting-edge scientific studies that support the effectiveness

of herbs in animals. But even more significant to the purposes of this book, we share what herbalists and animals

have learned in the absence of science (without the cruel inhumanities of animal testing) from thousands of years of

continuously safe and effective herb use.

本书向您介绍了数百种可用于动物日常护理的植物药物。在第一章中，您将了解为您的同伴提供天然全

食物饮食的重要性。然后，当您学习选择、准备和应用自然疗法时，您将逐步进入自力更生的新水平，其

中许多可能就像您自己的后院一样，为您的伴侣动物提供帮助。为了帮助克服可能的怀疑，我们提供了数

百项尖端科学研究的参考资料，这些研究支持草药在动物中的有效性。但对本书的目的来说更重要的是，

我们分享了草药师和动物在没有科学的情况下（没有残酷的不人道的动物测试）从数千年来持续安全有效

的草药使用中学到的东西。

However, all of this represents the lesser side of what this book has to offer. Our deepest wish is to pass on the

sense of interconnectedness that grows within the heart of the healer, as he or she learns and accepts ancient ways of

healing that have been utilized by all life-forms on earth. This is not just a book about finding alternatives to

conventional drugs; it is one about honoring and supporting a system of health care and healing that far exceeds the

effectiveness of any medicine devised by humans—a system contained in and shared among the bodies of animals,

=== PAGE 13 ===
plants, and Mother Earth herself.

然而，所有这些都代表了本书所提供的较小的一面。我们最深切的愿望是，当治疗师学习并接受地球上

所有生命形式都使用的古老治疗方法时，将其心中生长的相互联系感传递下去。这不仅仅是一本关于寻找

传统药物替代品的书；它也是一本关于寻找传统药物替代品的书。它是关于尊重和支持远远超过人类设计

的任何药物有效性的医疗保健和治疗系统的一个系统，这个系统包含在动物、植物和地球母亲的身体中并

由它们共享。

In nature, plants represent much more than containers of active chemical constituents that have been identified

and validated by the halls of human science. They are healing delegates of nature’s design, here to serve the needs of

all creatures who benefit from the nectar of their flowers, the shelter of their leaves, and the healing powers they

hold. They are the critical link between what is alive and what is not, providing us and other organisms with the

oxygen that is necessary for life and the base elements of the food chain—from macrobiotic soil nutrients to the

vegetables on our dinner plates. Yet most people see plants as humanity’s gift: insignificant by virtue of their silence

but powerful and valuable when their secrets are revealed by science. Likewise, most of humanity still sees animals

as expendable, lower forms of life that exist without intelligent consciousness or emotional pain and that offer no

resistance when exploited.

在自然界中，植物不仅仅代表人类科学殿堂已识别和验证的活性化学成分的容器。它们是大自然设计的

治愈代表，在这里服务于所有受益于花朵的花蜜、叶子的庇护和它们所拥有的治愈力量的生物的需求。它

们是生命与非生命之间的关键纽带，为我们和其他生物体提供生命所需的氧气和食物链的基本要素——从

长寿土壤养分到我们餐盘上的蔬菜。然而，大多数人将植物视为人类的礼物：由于它们的沉默而微不足

道，但当它们的秘密被科学揭示时，它们就变得强大而有价值。同样，大多数人类仍然将动物视为可消耗

的低等生命形式，它们的存在没有智慧意识或情感痛苦，并且在被剥削时不会提供任何抵抗。

In the minds of millions of people, plants and animals are here for the sole purpose of serving us, as fruits and

beasts of burden without equal rights, in the pursuit of health and happiness. Whether it be a feedlot steer or a

companion German shepherd dog, the needs of most animals become secondary concerns when we are buying pet

food at the grocery store or when a chronic immune system disorder erupts into a household flea infestation. Instead

of addressing their pet’s real needs, many pet owners are predisposed to remain focused on themselves—the grocery

bill dictates the quality of nutrition their animals receive, and fleas are approached as something that invades our

=== PAGE 14 ===
homes, rather than as a symptom of a weakened animal host.

在数百万人的心目中，植物和动物存在的唯一目的是为我们服务，作为没有平等权利的果实和驮兽，追

求健康和幸福。无论是饲养场的公牛还是伴侣德国牧羊犬，当我们在杂货店购买宠物食品或当慢性免疫系

统疾病爆发为家庭跳蚤感染时，大多数动物的需求都成为次要问题。许多宠物主人并没有满足宠物的真正

需求，而是倾向于继续关注自己——食品杂货账单决定了他们的动物所接受的营养质量，而跳蚤被视为入

侵我们家庭的东西，而不是作为身体虚弱的症状。动物宿主。

With Herbs for Pets, we hope to precipitate a change in this paradigm. The fact that you are reading this book

implies that you are not like most people—in fact, you are part of a growing community of special human beings

who are on a healing path that leads to something much more significant than the simple joy derived from opening

up a can of cat food for the cat or giving the family dog rawhides to keep him busy. Like us, the authors of this

book, you have probably discovered that caring for an animal brings about a very special and powerful type of

healing.

通过 Herbs for Pets，我们希望能够推动这种模式的改变。你正在阅读这本书的事实意味着你与大多数人

不同——事实上，你是一个由特殊人类组成的不断壮大的社区的一部分，他们走在一条治愈的道路上，这

条道路会带来比从简单的快乐中获得的更重要的东西。给猫打开一罐猫粮，或者给家里的狗生皮，让他忙

起来。像我们（本书的作者）一样，您可能已经发现照顾动物可以带来一种非常特殊且强大的治疗效果。

When we provide our companion animals with considerations of health and healing that meet their needs and not

just our own, we are in effect healing ourselves as well. In fact, we are healing one of the primary causes of earth’s

greatest ills: humanity’s disconnection from nature.

当我们为伴侣动物提供健康和康复方面的考虑，满足它们的需求，而不仅仅是我们自己的需求时，我们

实际上也在治愈自己。事实上，我们正在治愈地球上最大弊病的主要原因之一：人类与自然的脱节。

Somewhere in the history of our species we have chosen a relationship of consumption and control rather than of

coexistence with our planet, and it seems that our goal has been to defeat or defy nature at all costs. We defy

nature’s mechanisms of resisting disease by suppressing or bypassing the immune system with corticosteroid drugs,

antibiotics, and vaccines. We ignore the natural requirements of good nutrition by supplementing an unhealthy diet

with vitamin tablets. We dam rivers and drain swamps; we even try to change the duration of daylight by resetting

the clocks for “daylight saving time.” To compound all of this heady nonsense, we have placed our own self-

imposed needs far above those of our earthly neighbors, and as a result the entire planet is suffering. For much too

long, the human condition has prohibited us from living in harmony with the natural world that surrounds us.

在我们人类历史的某个阶段，我们选择了消费和控制的关系，而不是与我们的星球共存，而且我们的目

标似乎是不惜一切代价击败或反抗自然。我们通过使用皮质类固醇药物、抗生素和疫苗来抑制或绕过免疫

系统，从而违背自然抵抗疾病的机制。我们通过用维生素片来补充不健康的饮食，从而忽视了良好营养的

自然要求。我们筑坝河流，排干沼泽；我们甚至尝试通过重置“夏令时”时钟来改变日光的持续时间。使所

有这些令人兴奋的废话变得更加复杂，我们将自己的自我强加的需求远远高于地球邻居的需求，结果整个

地球都在受苦。长期以来，人类的生存状况阻碍我们与周围的自然世界和谐相处。

The key to changing this trend rests not in the halls of science but in our willingness to see nature as nature is.

Instead of studying the nature of plants from a mind-set that insists on picking their chemistries apart in an arrogant

attempt to find singular compounds that may be exploited as drugs, we must learn to examine plants as they exist in

nature, to discover and explore the intermingled relationships they share with the physical and nonphysical needs of

all living things on earth. Likewise, instead of subjecting our animals, our most ancient teachers, to unthinkable pain

and torture in a quest for rational answers to satisfy our scientific needs, we must learn to accept nature’s medicines

simply as nature presents them. The reality is that the need for scientific validation is shared only among humans—

no other life-form on earth insists on analyzing and rationalizing nature’s design, especially at the cold-hearted

expense of animal suffering. In essence, science is merely striving to rationalize what has been known throughout

the natural realm for eons.

改变这一趋势的关键不在于科学殿堂，而在于我们愿意看到自然的本来面目。我们不能以一种坚持将其

化学成分拆开来傲慢地试图寻找可用作药物的单一化合物的心态来研究植物的本质，而是必须学会检查自

然界中存在的植物，发现和探索它们它们与地球上所有生物的物质和非物质需求之间的混合关系。同样，

我们不能让我们的动物（我们最古老的老师）遭受难以想象的痛苦和折磨，以寻求理性的答案来满足我们

的科学需求，我们必须学会简单地接受大自然提供的自然药物。现实情况是，只有人类才需要科学验证

——地球上没有其他生命形式坚持分析和合理化自然的设计，尤其是以动物痛苦为代价的冷酷无情。从本

=== PAGE 15 ===
质上讲，科学只是努力将自然领域千古以来已知的事物合理化。

This is a book about a level of healing that reaches far beyond that which can be provided by science. It is about

holistic healing in its truest sense—a process that does not begin or end with the administration of a medicine but

with our connection to nature. Holistic healing is not something that is given or received between caregiver and

patient—it is part of a continuous circle that is shared among all entities involved in the maintenance of health. Our

planet provides the elements from which plants are born and must reproduce. The animals and insects serve as

stewards for the plants and in turn pass their intuitive wisdom to us. However, to access this wisdom, we must

rethink our ways—we must relearn how to give for all that we receive from nature, and we must pay attention to the

quiet lessons that surround us in the circle of life.

这是一本关于远远超出科学所能提供的治疗水平的书。它是最真实意义上的整体治疗——这个过程不是

以药物的使用开始或结束，而是以我们与自然的联系为起点或结束。整体治疗不是护理人员和患者之间给

予或接受的东西，而是参与维护健康的所有实体共享的连续循环的一部分。我们的星球提供了植物诞生和

繁殖的元素。动物和昆虫充当植物的管家，反过来将它们的直觉智慧传递给我们。然而，要获得这种智

慧，我们必须重新思考我们的方式——我们必须重新学习如何奉献我们从大自然中获得的一切，我们必须

关注生活圈子中围绕我们的静悄悄的教训。

As someone who cares for a companion animal, you have taken a fundamental step back toward the circle of life

by accepting a part of nature into your home. Now, as you investigate the healing power of nature’s oldest

medicines, and as you learn how to honor your companion’s innate system of health maintenance, you will find

yourself stepping into the circle. Here you will find that animals are not human property but are among our most

valued teachers and healers. You will see that from the moment a puppy, a kitten, a baby bird, or another companion

animal enters a human life, a special bond with nature begins. From this bond we can learn innocence, compassion,

respect, unconditional love, and the tragedy of time wasted. And most important of all, we can finally realize that

despite centuries of our abuses, animals and plants remain quietly waiting to reconnect humankind with the ways of

nature.

作为一个照顾伴侣动物的人，通过接受大自然的一部分进入你的家，你已经向生命的循环迈出了根本性

的一步。现在，当您研究大自然最古老药物的治愈能力，并学习如何尊重同伴与生俱来的健康维护系统

时，您会发现自己步入了这个圈子。在这里您会发现动物不是人类的财产，而是我们最有价值的老师和治

疗师。您会发现，从小狗、小猫、小鸟或其他伴侣动物进入人类生活的那一刻起，与自然的特殊联系就开

始了。从这种联系中，我们可以学到纯真、同情、尊重、无条件的爱，以及浪费时间的悲剧。最重要的

是，我们终于可以认识到，尽管我们遭受了几个世纪的虐待，动物和植物仍然静静地等待着人类与自然的

方式重新建立联系。

In return for these offerings, and to assure that the circle remains unbroken by our presence, we must give

something equally precious back to our beloved companions and teachers: we must listen to them and help serve

their needs by providing the natural foods and medicines that have sustained their kind for millions of years.

作为对这些奉献的回报，并确保我们的存在不会破坏这个圈子，我们必须回馈我们敬爱的同伴和老师同

样珍贵的东西：我们必须倾听他们的意见，并通过提供天然食品和药物来帮助满足他们的需求。已经维持

了他们的同类数百万年。

=== PAGE 16 ===
The holistic herbalist looks beyond the symptoms of disease to identify and correct their underlying causes.

整体草药医生不仅仅关注疾病的症状，还要识别和纠正其根本原因。

=== PAGE 17 ===
Chapter 1

第1章

Principles and Practices of Herbalism

草药学原理与实践

=== PAGE 18 ===
USING HERBS NATURALLY

自然使用草药

Old ways die hard—especially when we have been raised with them. In our society, mainstream approaches to

health maintenance focus on symptomatic intervention. Typically, when a person or animal gets sick, the

conventional practitioner works to identify and suppress uncomfortable or unsightly symptoms in order to achieve

immediate relief. As children, most of us are taught time and again to confront fever with pain relievers such as

aspirin, acetaminophen, or ibuprofen; dandruff with shampoos; and constipation with laxatives.

旧的生活方式很难消逝——尤其是当我们与它们一起长大时。在我们的社会中，主流的健康维护方法侧重

于对症干预。通常，当人或动物生病时，传统医生会努力识别并抑制不舒服或难看的症状，以便立即缓解

症状。作为孩子，我们大多数人都一次又一次地被教导用阿司匹林、对乙酰氨基酚或布洛芬等止痛药来应

对发烧；用洗发水去头皮屑；和泻药引起的便秘。

But what about the causes of these discomforts? Are we really taking a curative approach toward a fever if we

don’t recognize its origin and its purpose? Why do we have dandruff anyway? Why are our animals suffering with

chronic constipation? These are questions that are addressed by the holistic herbalist—one who looks at the body as

an entire, intricately balanced biocommunity of countless organs, chemicals, microorganisms, and life energies.

From a holistic perspective, the herbalist realizes that all body functions are interdependent and that physical or

emotional discomforts do not represent the totality of a health crisis but only the body’s conveyance of an

underlying imbalance or crisis—a state of “dis-ease.”

但造成这些不适的原因又是什么呢？如果我们不认识发烧的根源和目的，我们真的能对发烧采取治疗方

法吗？为什么我们会有头皮屑？为什么我们的动物患有慢性便秘？这些问题是由整体草药医生解决的，他

们将身体视为一个完整的、错综复杂的平衡生物群落，由无数器官、化学物质、微生物和生命能量组成。

从整体角度来看，中医认识到所有身体功能都是相互依存的，身体或情绪不适并不代表健康危机的全部，

而只是身体传达潜在的不平衡或危机——一种“不适”状态。

Unlike conventional Western medicine, the focus of holistic healing is not to kill or cut out disease as it occurs,

but to reestablish and maintain holistic homeostasis, the state of harmonious balance and rhythm among mind, body,

spirit, and environment. For most of us, this involves putting some old predispositions aside, revving up the

imagination, and engaging in some open-minded observation. We don’t need bioscience degrees to embrace the

principles of effective herbalism, but we are required to view health and healing from a much deeper perspective—

one that takes into account not only the discomforts of disease but also the totality of wellness. From this

perspective, for example, smoking is not a cause of lung cancer but a by-product of whatever prompts us to smoke

in the first place. Cigarettes are only a mechanism of cellular destruction, and the tumors they feed are the end

products of something insidious that lies within the psyche of the host. It is that “something” that allows us to

abandon our well-being in favor of an addictive habit we all know is bad for us, and it is from this level that the

healing process must begin.

与传统西医不同，整体治疗的重点不是在疾病发生时杀死或切除疾病，而是重建和维持整体稳态，即心

灵、身体、精神和环境之间和谐平衡和节奏的状态。对于我们大多数人来说，这需要抛开一些旧有的倾

向，激发想象力，并进行一些开放的观察。我们不需要生物科学学位来接受有效草药学的原则，但我们需

要从更深入的角度来看待健康和治疗——不仅考虑到疾病的不适，还考虑到健康的整体。例如，从这个角

度来看，吸烟并不是肺癌的原因，而是最初促使我们吸烟的事物的副产品。香烟只是细胞破坏的一种机

制，而它们所滋养的肿瘤是宿主心灵中某种阴险东西的最终产物。正是这种“东西”让我们放弃自己的幸

福，转而沉迷于我们都知道对我们有害的成瘾习惯，而治愈过程必须从这个层面开始。

LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS

缩略语表

=== PAGE 19 ===
AAFCO: Association of American Feed Control Officials

AAFCO：美国饲料控制官员协会

ACTH: adrenocorticotropic hormone

ACTH：促肾上腺皮质激素

AIDS: acquired immune deficiency syndrome

艾滋病：获得性免疫缺陷综合症

ASPCA: American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

ASPCA：美国防止虐待动物协会

AVMA: American Veterinary Medical Association

AVMA：美国兽医协会

BHA: butylated hydroxyanisole

BHA：丁基羟基苯甲醚

BHT: butylated hydroxytoluene

BHT：丁基羟基甲苯

CHV: canine herpes virus

CHV：犬疱疹病毒

CoQ10: coenzyme Q10

CoQ10：辅酶Q10

CPR: cardiopulmonary resuscitation

CPR：心肺复苏

DLE: discoid lupus erythematosus

DLE：盘状红斑狼疮

EFA: essential atty acid

EFA：必需脂肪酸

FDA: Food and Drug Administration

FDA：食品和药物管理局

FeLV: feline leukemia virus

FeLV：猫白血病病毒

FIP: feline infectious peritonitis

FIP：猫传染性腹膜炎

FIV: feline immunodeficiency virus (also known as feline AIDS)

FIV：猫免疫缺陷病毒（也称为猫艾滋病）

FUS: feline urinary syndrome

FUS：猫泌尿综合症

FVR: feline viral rhinotracheitis

FVR：猫病毒性鼻气管炎

F: Fahrenheit

F：华氏度

FLUTD: feline lower urinary tract disease

FLUTD：猫下尿路疾病

=== PAGE 20 ===
GABA: gamma-aminobutyric acid

GABA：γ-氨基丁酸

GBE: ginkgo biloba extract

GBE：银杏叶提取物

GI: gastrointestinal

GI：胃肠道

GLA: gamma-linolenic acid

GLA：γ-亚麻酸

G6PD: glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase

G6PD：葡萄糖-6-磷酸脱氢酶

GST: glutathione S-transferase

GST：谷胱甘肽 S-转移酶

HCl: hydrochloride

HCl：盐酸盐

HCM: hypertrophic cardiomyopathy

HCM：肥厚型心肌病

HSV: herpes simplex virus

HSV：单纯疱疹病毒

IU: international unit

IU：国际单位

MAOI: monoamine oxidase inhibitor

MAOI：单胺氧化酶抑制剂

NDGA: nordihydroguaiaretic acid

NDGA：去甲二氢愈创木酸

PABA: para-amino benzoic acid

PABA：对氨基苯甲酸

PAF: platelet aggregating factor

PAF：血小板聚集因子

PAs: pyrrolizidine alkaloids

PA：吡咯里西啶生物碱

PDA: patent ductus arteriosus

PDA：动脉导管未闭

RDA: recommended daily allowance

RDA：建议每日摄入量

sp.: species (singular/not specified)

sp.：物种（单一/未指定）

spp.: species (plural)

spp.：物种（复数）

TCM: traditional Chinese medicine

中医：中医

=== PAGE 21 ===
TSH: thyroid stimulating hormone

TSH：促甲状腺激素

TTouch: Tellington Touch

TTouch：泰灵顿触摸

Although this bit of holistic philosophy may sound simple, it is fundamentally broader than Western orthodox

medicine, which centers on intervention and subsequent suppression of disease symptoms. Western society is

spoiled by the concept of making problems go away quickly so we can get on with life. Rather than taking the

longer route toward finding a true cure, the conventional goal is to find a quick-fix solution to the inconveniences of

a crisis. Herbs are often employed in much the same capacity. The greatest healing potential of herbs, however,

emanates not from their uses as natural drug alternatives but from the holistic principles and philosophies that enable

us to use them in support of the natural healing mechanisms of the body.

尽管这种整体哲学听起来很简单，但它从根本上比西方正统医学更广泛，西方正统医学的重点是干预和

随后抑制疾病症状。西方社会被让问题迅速解决以便我们能够继续生活的观念所破坏。传统的目标不是采

取更长的路线来寻找真正的解决办法，而是找到一个快速解决危机带来的不便的解决方案。草药通常具有

大致相同的作用。然而，草药最大的治疗潜力并非源于它们作为天然药物替代品的用途，而是源于使我们

能够使用它们来支持身体自然治疗机制的整体原则和哲学。

The holistic herbalist looks beyond the symptoms of disease to identify and correct their underlying causes. An

herbalist strives to understand the harmonious checks and balances that are required among all physical and

nonphysical aspects of mind, body, spirit, and environment.

整体草药医生不仅仅关注疾病的症状，还要识别和纠正其根本原因。草药师努力理解思想、身体、精神

和环境的所有物理和非物理方面之间所需的和谐制衡。

At the core of this tightly orchestrated synergy, we find a continual need for complete nutrition because a body

must have the fuel and tools it needs to build, maintain, and repair itself. In the absence of complete nutrition,

necessary tools and building blocks are missing, and the body lacks the resources to make repairs and correct

imbalances. In addition to complete nutrition, a body sometimes requires a specialized source of stimulation or

systemic support in order to maintain a state of health and wellbeing. This is where herbs come in.

在这种紧密协调的协同作用的核心，我们发现对完整营养的持续需求，因为身体必须拥有构建、维持和

修复自身所需的燃料和工具。在缺乏完整营养的情况下，必要的工具和构建模块就会缺失，身体也缺乏修

复和纠正失衡的资源。除了完整的营养之外，身体有时还需要专门的刺激源或全身支持才能维持健康和福

祉状态。这就是草药的用武之地。

The holistic herbalist employs the chemical and energetic properties of plants to help bridge the gaps between

what a body receives from complete nutrition and what it requires from time to time in terms of supplemental

support. In this holistic context, herbs are used to stimulate, regulate, or adjust natural body functions back into

healthy harmony with the rest of the body. The therapeutic effort is directed not at treating disease but at supporting

the body in its efforts to correct the problem itself. In other words, herbs are used to assist the body naturally at what

it is designed to do: stay healthy.

整体草药师利用植物的化学和能量特性来帮助弥补身体从完整营养中获得的营养与不时需要的补充支持

之间的差距。在这种整体背景下，草药被用来刺激、调节或调整自然身体功能，使其与身体其他部位恢复

健康和谐。治疗的目的不是治疗疾病，而是支持身体努力纠正问题本身。换句话说，草药被用来帮助身体

自然地完成其设计目的：保持健康。

For many people, allowing the body to correct itself may not be easy because this requires trust in something that

still baffles our greatest scientists: the body’s remarkable, almost miraculous, ability to take care of itself. A living

body, be it animal or human, represents a system of healing and health maintenance more efficient than anything

devised by human intellect. To allow herbs to work at their optimum potential, the herb user must respect and honor

the healing powers with which we were all born.

对于许多人来说，让身体自我纠正可能并不容易，因为这需要相信仍然困扰着我们最伟大的科学家的东

西：身体非凡的、几乎是奇迹般的自我照顾能力。一个活体，无论是动物还是人类，都代表着比人类智慧

=== PAGE 22 ===
设计的任何东西都更有效的治疗和健康维护系统。为了让草药发挥最佳功效，草药使用者必须尊重和尊重

我们与生俱来的治愈能力。

=== PAGE 23 ===
THE MANY FACES OF HERBAL MEDICINE

草药的多种面貌

Many of the plants we use in Western herbalism are identical to those used in other modalities of herbal medicine.

But the philosophies of how an herb interacts with the mind, body, or spirit tend to vary greatly from culture to

culture. Here are some brief descriptions of three of the most popular forms of holistic medicine in which herbs are

commonly employed.

我们在西方草药学中使用的许多植物与其他草药疗法中使用的植物相同。但草药如何与思想、身体或精神

相互作用的哲学往往因文化而异。以下是对三种最流行的整体医学形式的简要描述，其中通常使用草药。

• Ayurvedic Medicine

• 阿育吠陀医学

In India and adjacent areas of the Middle East, ayurveda has prevailed as the primary modality of healing for

thousands of years. Ayurvedic medicine focuses on recognizing the doshas, the metabolic body type of an

individual. The first step in ayurvedic healing is to identify the specific strengths, susceptibilities, and

tendencies of the patient from a broad perspective and to take into account the entire constitution of the

individual. Once these are identified, herbs, diet, meditation, or other mechanisms are used to bring the

constitution of the individual back into harmonious balance with all elements of the mind, body, spirit, and

environment.

在印度和中东邻近地区，阿育吠陀作为主要的治疗方式已经流行了数千年。阿育吠陀医学的重点是

识别能量，即个体的代谢身体类型。阿育吠陀疗法的第一步是从广泛的角度确定患者的具体优势、

敏感性和倾向，并考虑到个人的整体体质。一旦确定了这些，就可以使用草药、饮食、冥想或其他

机制来使个体的体质恢复与思想、身体、精神和环境的所有元素的和谐平衡。

• Traditional Chinese Medicine

• 中药

Herbs have been used in traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) for at least seven thousand years. Many

principles of TCM are similar to those of ayurvedic medicine. The primary difference is in how the body is

viewed in terms of channels, rivers, winds, and energetic flows in TCM. In other words, the body is seen as a

reflection of nature, and practitioners look for energetic blockages or disruptions—dampness, dryness, hot or

cold winds, or bank breaches in the flow of qi (pronounced “chee”), the life force. The physical body is also

viewed as a set of balanced polarities: yin, which generally refers to the tissues of the body organs, and yang,

the activity of the organs. Yin and yang are opposites that cannot work independently of one another. If a yin

deficiency occurs, it is because the body does not have proper nutrients or adequate physical structure to

perform its functions. If a yang deficiency occurs, the body cannot react to metabolic stimuli. In TCM, herbs

are used to assist and maintain proper energetic flows and polarities in the body.

草药在中医 (TCM) 中的应用至少已有七千年历史。中医的许多原理与阿育吠陀医学相似。主要区别

在于中医如何看待身体的经络、河流、风和能量流。换句话说，身体被视为自然的反映，练习者寻

找能量的阻塞或破坏——潮湿、干燥、热风或冷风，或者生命力气（发音为“chee”）流动的堤坝缺

口。 。身体也被视为一组平衡的极性：阴，通常指身体器官的组织，阳，指器官的活动。阴和阳是

对立的，不能独立运作。如果出现阴虚，那是因为身体没有适当的营养或足够的身体结构来发挥其

功能。如果出现阳虚，身体就无法对代谢刺激做出反应。在中医中，草药用于协助和维持体内适当

的能量流动和极性。

=== PAGE 24 ===
Traditional herbal cabinet at a Chinese pharmacy

中药房的传统草药柜

• Western Herbalism

• 西方草药学

In contrast, Western herbalism seems almost superficial in nature. Western herbalism originates from ancient

uses of medicinal plants in Europe. Many of the principles, philosophies, and certainly our validations of

how herbs are used to effect healing are constantly evolving in this form of herbalism. For instance, the

spirituality of the healer, the patient, and even the herb itself was once the primary focus of herbal medicine

in ancient Europe. But today, Western herbalists incorporate many philosophies, including scientific

validation of photochemical compounds, plant energetics, folkloric accounts and belief systems, and several

other points of opinion.

相比之下，西方草药学本质上似乎几乎是肤浅的。西方草药学起源于欧洲古代对药用植物的使用。

许多原则、哲学，当然还有我们对如何使用草药来实现治疗效果的验证，都在这种形式的草药学中

不断发展。例如，治疗者、病人、甚至草药本身的灵性曾经是古代欧洲草药的主要关注点。但今

天，西方草药学家融合了许多哲学，包括光化学化合物的科学验证、植物能量学、民间传说和信仰

体系，以及其他一些观点。

As Western herbalists, we base our use of herbs on a balance of all philosophies. We respect and admire

recent scientific validations of medicinal plant chemistries, but we also strongly believe that plants contain

synergistic balances of chemical, energetic, and perhaps spiritual elements that make them unique and

unexplainable. We see a great deal of value in much of the anecdotal evidence that has been handed down

regarding the traditional uses of herbs over the past few millennia. Although scientific studies have failed to

validate many of the claims that have been passed down through the ages, the fact that many of these

customs have worked safely and effectively for thousands of people throughout several centuries is certainly

convincing to us. But despite differences in opinion, most Western herbalists share a similar, holistic

perspective when it comes to doing the actual work of healing.

作为西方草药师，我们将草药的使用建立在所有哲学的平衡之上。我们尊重并钦佩最近对药用植

物化学的科学验证，但我们也坚信植物含有化学、能量、或许还有精神元素的协同平衡，这使得它

们独特且无法解释。我们在过去几千年流传下来的有关草药传统用途的许多轶事证据中看到了很大

的价值。尽管科学研究未能证实许多流传已久的说法，但其中许多习俗在几个世纪以来对成千上万

的人安全有效地发挥作用这一事实无疑让我们信服。尽管观点存在差异，但大多数西方草药医生在

进行实际治疗工作时都持有相似的整体观点。

The body is viewed from a biological perspective but with a focus that takes into account the totality of the

individual. While mainstream modalities of Western medicine focus primarily on the treatment of disease

=== PAGE 25 ===
and suppression of symptoms with little regard to cause, the herbalist works from the opposite direction.

While working to promote health by addressing the underlying causes and providing aid to the body’s

efforts, the Western herbalist views the body as a tightly knit biosystem of organs, cooperative cells,

microbes, enzymes, nutrients, and synergistic energies that must be maintained in a state of cooperative

balance. During a disease crisis, herbs are utilized to strengthen or stimulate the body’s natural functions at

chemical and energetic levels so that a state of health can be reestablished quickly and efficiently. After the

crisis is over, herbal tonics may then be used to strengthen body functions that are chronically deficient to

avoid reoccurrence.

从生物学角度看待身体，但重点考虑到个体的整体性。西医的主流治疗方法主要侧重于治疗疾病

和抑制症状，很少考虑病因，而草药师则从相反的方向进行治疗。在通过解决根本原因和为身体提

供帮助来促进健康的同时，西方草药师将身体视为一个由器官、合作细胞、微生物、酶、营养物质

和协同能量组成的紧密结合的生物系统，必须在合作平衡状态。在疾病危机期间，草药被用来在化

学和能量水平上增强或刺激身体的自然功能，以便快速有效地恢复健康状态。危机结束后，可以使

用草药补品来增强长期缺乏的身体功能，以避免再次发生。

While the philosophies that lead people to the use of herbal medicines are variable worldwide, all

modalities of herbal healing share two fundamental similarities. One is that the therapeutic focus is holistic,

taking into account the totality of the individual instead of the symptoms of disease only. The other is that all

good herbalists know that herbs work best in a proactive capacity when employed from a perspective that

recognizes health maintenance as the paramount cure for disease.

虽然世界各地引导人们使用草药的理念各不相同，但所有草药治疗方式都有两个基本相似之处。

一是治疗重点是整体的，考虑个体的整体，而不仅仅是疾病的症状。另一个是，所有优秀的草药医

生都知道，当从认识到维持健康是治疗疾病的首要方法的角度出发时，草药以积极主动的方式发挥

最佳作用。

HERBS THAT ARE FREQUENTLY USED AS SUBSTITUTES FOR

CONVENTIONAL DRUGS

经常用作传统药物替代品的草药

Herb

草本植物

Substitute Uses

替代用途

Licorice (Glycyrrhiza

glabra)

甘草（光果甘草）

Used as an anti-inflammatory alternative to yucca root (Yucca schidigera),

steroidal, and nonsteroidal drugs

用作丝兰根 (Yucca schidigera)、类固醇和非类固醇药物的抗炎替代品

Black walnut (Juglans

nigra)

黑胡桃木（Juglans

nigra）

Used in place of conventional wormers

用于代替传统驱虫器

Wormwood (Artemisia

absinthium)

=== PAGE 26 ===
艾草（艾蒿）

Saint-John’s-wort

(Hypericum spp.)

圣约翰草（金丝桃属）

Used as a natural substitute for Prozac (fluoxetine HCl)

用作百忧解（盐酸氟西汀）的天然替代品

Oregon grape (Mahonia

spp.)

俄勒冈葡萄（Mahonia

spp.）

Used as an antibiotic for eyes, ears, and mucous membranes

用作眼睛、耳朵和粘膜的抗生素

Valerian (Valeriana

officinalis)

缬草（Valeriana

officinalis）

Skullcap (Scutellaria

laterifolia)

黄芩（黄芩）

Used as alternatives to sedative drugs

用作镇静药物的替代品

Passionflower (Passiflora

incarnata)

西番莲（Passiflora

incarnata）

Hop (Humulus lupulus)

啤酒花（啤酒花）

Dandelion leaf

(Taraxacum officinale)

蒲公英叶（蒲公英）

Used in place of furosemide (Lasix)

用于代替呋塞米（Lasix）

Senna (Cassia

angustifolia)

番泻叶（Cassia

angustifolia）

Used as a natural laxative

用作天然泻药

=== PAGE 27 ===
HERBS AS ALTERNATIVES TO CONVENTIONAL MEDICINES

草药作为传统药物的替代品

Many of us are introduced to the realm of herbal medicine by using herbs as direct replacements for over-the-

counter or prescription drugs. Like drugs, herbs can be used to treat the symptoms of disease effectively. Unlike

many drugs, herbs are relatively safe and gentle medicines—they are very forgiving, offering a much greater margin

of error and fewer adverse side effects.

我们中的许多人通过使用草药作为非处方药或处方药的直接替代品而进入草药领域。像药物一样，草药可

以用来有效治疗疾病的症状。与许多药物不同，草药是相对安全且温和的药物——它们非常宽容，提供更

大的误差范围和更少的不良副作用。

Most drugs are composed of specific chemical compounds that have been isolated from their source and

concentrated to maximum potency. A medicinal plant, however, consists of dozens, sometimes thousands, of

interactive or inert chemical components. Many skeptics argue that herbal medicines are less effective and unsafe

because the concentrations of active constituents are too low and are variable from plant to plant.

大多数药物由特定的化合物组成，这些化合物已从其来源中分离出来并浓缩至最大效力。然而，药用植

物由数十种，有时甚至数千种相互作用或惰性化学成分组成。许多怀疑论者认为，草药的功效较差且不安

全，因为活性成分的浓度太低，并且植物与植物之间的浓度存在差异。

To the herbalist, the presence of scientifically proven compounds is only part of what makes a plant useful.

Instead of focusing on isolated chemical components, the herbalist accepts the inexplicable synergy that exists

among all components of a plant’s chemistry and all components of the physical and nonphysical recipient. In the

mind of the herbalist, this is what makes herbal medicine safe, effective, and unique. The whole plant is always

greater, and usually safer, than the sum of its parts.

对于草药师来说，经科学证明的化合物的存在只是植物有用的一部分。草药师不关注孤立的化学成分，

而是接受植物化学的所有成分以及物理和非物理接受者的所有成分之间存在的难以解释的协同作用。在草

药医生看来，这就是草药安全、有效和独特的原因。整个工厂总是比其各个部分的总和更大，而且通常更

安全。

For those who are trying to break away from conventional ways of thinking, this concept of holistic synergy can

be difficult to grasp. Having been raised and trained in a science-based culture, accepting something that cannot be

fully rationalized can be difficult. But to put things into a scientific perspective, let’s look at thymol, the primary

active constituent of thyme (Thymus spp.).

对于那些试图摆脱传统思维方式的人来说，整体协同的概念可能很难理解。在以科学为基础的文化中长

大和接受训练的人，接受一些不能完全合理化的事情可能会很困难。但为了从科学的角度来看，我们来看

看百里香酚，它是百里香（百里香属）的主要活性成分。

Thymol is potentially toxic when isolated from the rest of the thyme plant. But when employed as part of the

whole plant in a tincture or tea, thymol serves as an active part of a safe and effective antimicrobial, dewormer, and

cough suppressant medicine.

当从百里香植物的其余部分中分离出百里香酚时，它具有潜在的毒性。但当百里香酚作为整个植物的一

部分用于酊剂或茶中时，它就成为安全有效的抗菌、驱虫和止咳药物的活性部分。

Anybody from any discipline of science can pick up a simple herbal remedy and use it for the purpose of treating

illness. It’s really very easy to substitute many of the favored conventional medicines with herbal remedies. But here

are a few important things to remember.

任何科学学科的任何人都可以选择一种简单的草药并用它来治疗疾病。用草药替代许多受欢迎的传统药

物确实非常容易。但这里有一些需要记住的重要事项。

• Keep in mind that herbs are slower acting than most drugs. Expectation of rapid results is perhaps the greatest

cause of frustration and failure among would-be herbalists. The difference between a successful herbal

therapy and resorting to a shot of, say, prednisolone often amounts to a day or two of patient waiting.

• 请记住，草药的作用比大多数药物要慢。对快速结果的期望可能是潜在的草药师沮丧和失败的最大原

=== PAGE 28 ===
因。成功的草药疗法和注射泼尼松龙之类的药物之间的区别通常相当于患者等待一两天。

• When using herbs as direct replacements for allopathic medicines, don’t expect results beyond those you

would expect from the drugs you are replacing. The only difference in therapy when using herbs as drug

substitutes is the medicinal device; the curative depth of the therapy remains the same.

• 当使用草药作为对抗疗法药物的直接替代品时，不要期望超出您所替代药物的预期结果。使用草药作

为药物替代品时，治疗的唯一区别在于医疗器械；治疗的治疗深度保持不变。

• If you opt to use herbs symptomatically, it is important to remember that you will likely end up discouraged if

you expect to find a cure. For example, when treating conjunctivitis that is secondary to bacterial infection, a

combination eyewash of Oregon grape (Mahonia aquifolium ), raspberry leaf (Rubus idaeus), and sterile

saline will effectively replace most conventional ophthalmic preparations—but just like a conventional

preparation, the herbs won’t address the underlying causes of a chronic problem.

• 如果您选择对症使用草药，请务必记住，如果您希望找到治疗方法，您可能最终会灰心丧气。例如，

在治疗继发于细菌感染的结膜炎时，俄勒冈葡萄（Mahonia aquifolium）、覆盆子叶（Rubus idaeus）

和无菌盐水的组合洗眼液将有效取代大多数传统的眼科制剂，但就像传统制剂一样，草药不能解决

慢性问题的根本原因。

=== PAGE 29 ===
HERB ACTIONS AND SPECIAL AFFINITIES

草药的作用和特殊的亲和力

It is unrealistic to think a full conveyance of effective herbal wisdom can be contained in this book, but a large

measure of awareness can be perpetuated by embracing a basic understanding of how each of these plants works

within the body. In Western herbalism, the effects that plant materials have in or on the body are called “medicinal

actions” or “active properties.” By becoming familiar with the medicinal actions of the herbs to which you have

access, you will have a good idea where to look for an appropriate course of therapy when a need for one arises. In

addition to knowing the manner by which herbs work in the body, it is also important to begin learning each herb’s

specialty, or systemic affinity—its special kinship with certain portions of the anatomy. For instance, we may know

that slippery elm has a general astringent action (meaning that it shrinks tissues), but its effective usefulness can be

really pronounced when we know that it has a special affinity to the digestive tract, where its astringent actions are

particularly well suited to shrinking the inner wall of the small intestine to relieve diarrhea and other discomforts.

认为本书能够全面传达有效的草药智慧是不现实的，但通过对每种植物如何在体内发挥作用的基本了解，

可以在很大程度上保持这种意识。在西方草药学中，植物材料对身体的作用被称为“药用作用”或“活性特

性”。通过熟悉您可以获得的草药的药用作用，您将清楚地知道在需要时到哪里寻找合适的治疗方案。除了

了解草药在体内的作用方式之外，开始了解每种草药的特殊性或系统亲和力（其与解剖学某些部分的特殊

亲缘关系）也很重要。例如，我们可能知道滑榆具有一般的收敛作用（意味着它会收缩组织），但当我们

知道它对消化道有特殊的亲和力时，它的有效用处才真正明显，而在消化道中，它的收敛作用尤其明显。

非常适合收缩小肠内壁以缓解腹泻和其他不适。

A BASIC START-UP APOTHECARY FOR VETERINARY

APPLICATIONS

兽医应用的基本初创药剂师

All of the herbs in this table are generally safe, well validated, and easy to use in a wide variety of veterinary

applications. They are listed by medicinal activity, and brief comments about the areas of special usefulness

are noted.

该表中的所有草药通常都是安全的、经过充分验证且易于在各种兽医应用中使用。它们按药用活性

列出，并注明了有关特殊用途领域的简短评论。

Alternatives

备择方案

Herbs that gradually alter an existing condition in the body by strengthening or stimulating various systems

and eliminating waste from the bloodstream. For skin and coat disorders, rheumatoid conditions, cancer, and

other disorders where the body may benefit from improved elimination of toxic excess and systemic waste.

通过加强或刺激各种系统并消除血液中的废物来逐渐改变体内现有状况的草药。对于皮肤和皮毛疾

病、类风湿病、癌症和其他疾病，身体可能受益于改善有毒过量和全身废物的消除。

Herb

草本植物

Condition

健康）状况

Alfalfa (Medicago sativa)

苜蓿（Medicago sativa）

Arthritis, blood disorders

关节炎、血液疾病

Burdock (Arctium lappa) Seborrhea, pyoderma, rheumatoid diseases

=== PAGE 30 ===
牛蒡（Arctium lappa） 皮脂溢、脓皮病、类风湿病

Red clover (Trifolium pratense)

红三叶草（Trifolium pratense）

Tumors, blood disorders

肿瘤、血液疾病

Gotu kola (Centella asiatica)

积雪草（Centella asiatica）

Dermatitis

皮炎

Anti-inflammatories

消炎药

Herbs that help reduce inflammation

有助于减少炎症的草药

Herb

草本植物

Condition

健康）状况

Licorice (Glycyrrhiza glabra)

甘草（光果甘草）

A general anti-inflammatory for skin conditions such as arthritis

用于关节炎等皮肤病的一般抗炎药

Oregon grape (Mahonia aquifolium)

俄勒冈葡萄（Mahonia aquifolium）

Reduces inflammation of the eyes, mouth, and other mucous

membranes

减少眼睛、口腔和其他粘膜的炎症

Devil’s claw (Harpagophytum

procumbens)

魔鬼爪（Harpagophytum

procumbens）

Arthritis and general uses

关节炎和一般用途

Yucca (Yucca schidigera)

丝兰 (丝兰 schidigera)

Reduces inflammations of the joints

减少关节炎症

Antimicrobials

抗菌剂

Herbs that inhibit reproduction and growth of harmful bacteria, fungi, or protozoa

抑制有害细菌、真菌或原生动物繁殖和生长的草药

Herb

草本植物

Condition

健康）状况

Echinacea (Echinacea spp.)

紫锥菊（紫锥菊属）

Especially for the urinary tract

尤其对于泌尿道

Oregon grape (Mahonia aquifolium)

digestive,

General purpose (eye, nose, ear, throat, and urinary infections)

一般用途（眼、鼻、耳、喉和泌尿道感染）

=== PAGE 31 ===
俄勒冈葡萄（Mahonia aquifolium）消

化，

Sage (Salvia officinalis)

鼠尾草（鼠尾草）

Skin and mouth infections, gingivitis

皮肤和口腔感染、牙龈炎

Marshmallow (Althaea officinalis)

棉花糖（Althaea officinalis）

Low-grade infections of the urinary tract, where inflammation

is evident

尿路低度感染，炎症明显

Yarrow (Achillea millefolium)

欧蓍草（Achillea millefolium）

External wounds, digestive, respiratory, and urinary tract

infections

外部伤口、消化道、呼吸道和泌尿道感染

Astringents

收敛剂

Herbs that reduce inflammations of the skin, eyes (conjunctivitis), and mucous membranes; treat diarrhea,

irritable bowel, and colic; and tonify smooth muscles of the urinary tract and uterus

减少皮肤、眼睛（结膜炎）和粘膜炎症的草药；治疗腹泻、肠易激和绞痛；并增强泌尿道和子宫的

平滑肌

Herb

草本植物

Condition

健康）状况

Raspberry leaf (Rubus idaeus)

覆盆子叶（Rubus idaeus）

Conjunctivitis, dermatitis, uterine tonic

结膜炎、皮炎、子宫补品

Nettle (Urtica spp.)

荨麻（荨麻属）

Conjunctivitis, dermatitis

结膜炎、皮炎

Plantain (Plantago major)

车前草（车前草大）

Dermatitis, gastrointestinal (GI) or urinary inflammation

皮炎、胃肠道 (GI) 或泌尿道炎症

Slippery elm (Ulmus fulva)

滑榆（Ulmus fulva）

GI or urinary inflammation

胃肠道或泌尿道炎症

Cardiovascular Tonics

心血管补品

Herbs that strengthen the physical integrity of the heart and blood vessels, moderate blood pressure, and

increase circulation

=== PAGE 32 ===
增强心脏和血管的身体完整性、调节血压和促进血液循环的草药

Herb

草本植物

Condition

健康）状况

Hawthorn (Crataegus spp.)

山楂（山楂属）

Strengthens cardiac output, moderates blood pressure, and increases

circulation throughout the body

增强心输出量、调节血压并增加全身循环

Ginkgo (Ginkgo biloba)

银杏（银杏叶）

Improves circulation in the brain, extremities, and kidneys

改善大脑、四肢和肾脏的循环

Cayenne (Capsicum spp.)

辣椒（辣椒属）

Improves peripheral circulation and circulation in the joints

改善末梢循环和关节循环

Yarrow (Achillea

millefolium) vessel

欧蓍草 (Achillea

millefolium) 容器

Improves circulation and strengthens structure in the extremities

改善四肢的循环并增强结构

Carminatives

驱风剂

Herbs that help relieve intestinal gas and indigestion, and are antispasmodic to the digestive tract

有助于缓解肠道气体和消化不良并解消化道痉挛的草药

Herb

草本植物

Condition

健康）状况

Fennel (Foeniculum vulgare)

茴香（Foeniculum vulgare）

Dyspepsia, flatulence, colic

消化不良、胀气、绞痛

Dill (Anethum graveolens)

莳萝（Anethumgravolens）

Dyspepsia, flatulence, colic

消化不良、胀气、绞痛

Peppermint (Mentha piperita)

薄荷（Mentha Piperita）

Dyspepsia, flatulence, colic

消化不良、胀气、绞痛

Chamomile (Matricaria recutita)

洋甘菊（Matricaria recutita）

Dyspepsia, flatulence, colic

消化不良、胀气、绞痛

Demulcents

缓和剂

Herbs that provide a protective lubricating barrier in the digestive and urinary tracts for the passage of wastes

and to help relieve irritation of mucous membranes

=== PAGE 33 ===
草药为消化道和泌尿道提供保护性润滑屏障，促进废物的通过，并有助于缓解粘膜刺激

Herb

草本植物

Condition

健康）状况

Marshmallow (Althaea officinalis)

棉花糖（Althaea officinalis）

Respiratory, digestive, and urinary irritations

呼吸系统、消化系统和泌尿系统刺激

Plantain (Plantago major)

车前草（车前草大）

Respiratory, digestive, and urinary irritations

呼吸系统、消化系统和泌尿系统刺激

Slippery elm (Ulmus fulva)

滑榆（Ulmus fulva）

Respiratory, digestive, urinary irritations

呼吸系统、消化系统、泌尿系统刺激

Ginkgo (Ginkgo biloba)

银杏（银杏叶）

Urinary irritations

尿液刺激

Diuretics

利尿剂

Herbs that stimulate diuresis in kidney disorders and water retention problems and help eliminate excess

waste and superfluous materials from the body and urinary tract

草药可刺激肾脏疾病和水潴留问题的利尿，并有助于消除体内和尿道中的多余废物和多余物质

Herb

草本植物

Condition

健康）状况

Dandelion leaf (Taraxacum officinale)

蒲公英叶（蒲公英）

The strongest herbal diuretic available

最强的草药利尿剂

Corn silk (Zea mays)

玉米须（Zea mays）

For calculi

对于演算

Shepherd’s purse (Capsella bursa-

pastoris)

荠菜（Capsella bursa-pastoris）

Especially good for water retention secondary to rheumatoid

conditions

特别适合类风湿病继发的保水作用

Immunotonics

免疫补剂

Herbs that stimulate and support immune system functions

刺激和支持免疫系统功能的草药

Herb

草本植物

Condition

健康）状况

=== PAGE 34 ===
Echinacea (Echinacea

spp.)

紫锥菊（紫锥菊属）

For early onset of bacterial or viral infections

用于早期出现的细菌或病毒感染

Astragalus (Astragalus

membranaceous)

黄芪（膜状黄芪）

A better-tasting but general alternative to echinacea; especially good for

problems involving weak kidney function

一种味道更好但通用的紫锥花替代品；特别适合涉及肾功能虚弱的问题

Lymphatics

淋巴管

Herbs that assist with lymph production and circulation; drain and heal lymph-engorged tissues and masses

(tumors, cysts, ulcers); useful in the systemic treatment of chronic dermatitis

有助于淋巴液生成和循环的草药；排出并治愈淋巴充血的组织和肿块（肿瘤、囊肿、溃疡）；可用

于慢性皮炎的全身治疗

Herb

草本植物

Condition

健康）状况

Cleavers (Galium aparine)

切肉刀（Galium aparine）

Digestive and urinary cysts, ulcers

消化道和泌尿道囊肿、溃疡

Red clover (Trifolium pratense)

红三叶草（Trifolium pratense）

Cysts and tumors of the skin; swollen lymph nodes

皮肤囊肿和肿瘤；淋巴结肿大

Nervines and Sedatives

紧张和镇静剂

Herbs that suppress or moderate nervous tension and anxiety or that moderate or suppress activity in higher

brain centers

抑制或缓和神经紧张和焦虑，或缓和或抑制高级大脑中枢活动的草药

Herb

草本植物

Condition

健康）状况

Skullcap (Scutellaria

spp.)

黄芩（Scutellaria

spp.）

For jittery anxiety; to help reduce severity of seizures; to relieve pain

对于紧张不安的焦虑；帮助减轻癫痫发作的严重程度；缓解疼痛

Valerian (Valeriana

officinalis)

缬草（Valeriana

officinalis）

For acute anxiety and hyperactivity; to help reduce severity of seizures; to relieve

pain

用于急性焦虑和多动症；帮助减轻癫痫发作的严重程度；缓解疼痛

Passionflower

(Passiflora

A relaxing mood elevator; for fear, for posttraumatic depression, and as a good

alternative for animals who respond unfavorably to valerian

=== PAGE 35 ===
incarnata)

西番莲（Passiflora

incarnata）

轻松的心情电梯；用于恐惧、创伤后抑郁症以及对缬草反应不佳的动物的良

好替代品

Saint-John’s-wort

(Hypericum spp.)

圣约翰草（金丝桃

属）

For nerve injuries

对于神经损伤

Oat straw (Avena

sativa)

燕麦杆（Avena

sativa）

An especially good nervous system tonic for older animals

对于老年动物来说是一种特别好的神经系统补品

Nutritives

营养品

Herbs that lend rich nutritional values; especially good for anemia and mineral deficiencies

具有丰富营养价值的草药；特别适合贫血和矿物质缺乏

Herb

草本植物

Condition

健康）状况

Nettle (Urtica spp.)

荨麻（荨麻属）

Broad-spectrum minerals, vitamins, and proteins

广谱矿物质、维生素和蛋白质

Alfalfa (Medicago sativa)

苜蓿（Medicago sativa）

Broad-spectrum minerals, vitamins, and proteins

广谱矿物质、维生素和蛋白质

Flaxseed (Linum spp.)

亚麻籽（Linum spp.）

Rich source of omega-3 essential fatty acids (EFAs)

富含 omega-3 必需脂肪酸 (EFA)

Dandelion (Taraxacum

officinale)

蒲公英（蒲公英）

Broad-spectrum minerals (especially potassium), vitamins, and

proteins

广谱矿物质（尤其是钾）、维生素和蛋白质

Vulneraries

伤病员

Herbs that promote healing, internally or externally

促进内部或外部愈合的草药

Herb

草本植物

Condition

健康）状况

Aloe vera (Aloe spp.) Externally for burns, wounds, dermatitis; internally for ulcers

=== PAGE 36 ===
芦荟（芦荟属） 外用用于烧伤、创伤、皮炎；内服治疗溃疡

Arnica (Arnica spp.)

山金车（山金车属）

For external treatment of closed-tissue injuries only

仅用于闭合组织损伤的外部治疗

Comfrey (Symphytum officinale)

紫草 (Symphytum officinale)

For external use on open- and closed-tissue injuries

用于开放性和闭合性组织损伤的外用

Calendula (Calendula officinalis)

金盏花（金盏花）

For dermatitis, burns, wounds

用于皮炎、烧伤、伤口

Saint-John’s-wort (Hypericum

perforatum)

圣约翰草（贯叶连翘）

For crushing soft-tissue injuries and any type of trauma where nerve

damage is evident

适用于挤压性软组织损伤和任何类型的神经损伤明显的创伤

=== PAGE 37 ===
DOSAGE AND DURATION OF THERAPY

剂量和治疗持续时间

The dosage suggestions provided in this book represent what we feel are safe and conservative starting points for

use in most animals. The exact dosage and duration of an herb therapy that your companion may need depends on

the animal’s specific needs, tolerances, and metabolism. In other words, the answers to how much and for how long

may vary from animal to animal.

本书中提供的剂量建议代表了我们认为对大多数动物使用安全且保守的起点。您的同伴可能需要的草药疗

法的确切剂量和持续时间取决于动物的具体需求、耐受性和新陈代谢。换句话说，关于多少和持续多久的

答案可能因动物而异。

Some animals respond favorably to very small doses—perhaps just a drop or two of tincture. Others require larger

doses or may not respond to certain herbs at all (as you know, such is the case with drugs too). Therefore, a

conservative starting point for administration of herb extracts, infusions, or dried herbs in dogs, cats, and herbivores

is to use only one or two herbs at a time and to proportion the dosage based on the animal’s body weight compared

to the recommended human dosage. For example, a 30-pound dog would receive one-fifth of that which is

recommended for a 150-pound human. Also to be considered is your veterinarian’s opinion, a reputable reference

book, or the product manufacturer’s recommendations.

有些动物对非常小的剂量（也许只是一两滴酊剂）有良好的反应。其他人则需要更大的剂量，或者可能

对某些草药根本没有反应（如您所知，药物也是如此）。因此，对狗、猫和食草动物施用草药提取物、输

液或干草药的保守起点是一次仅使用一种或两种草药，并根据动物体重与推荐剂量相比来调整剂量。人体

剂量。例如，一只 30 磅重的狗所接受的剂量仅为 150 磅重人类建议剂量的五分之一。还需要考虑的是兽医

的意见、信誉良好的参考书或产品制造商的建议。

Remember, this is just a starting point. Dogs, cats, and other carnivores have much faster metabolic rates than we

do; therefore, initial dosages might have to be increased later to achieve the results you are looking for. The biggest

mistake is to think of dosing in terms of absolutes. Instead, watch the animal you are treating; read up on the side

effects, contraindications, and active nature of the herbs you are using; and don’t hesitate to change dosages. If you

need to increase a dosage, do so in 10 percent increments to a maximum of 50 percent above the starting dose. In

other words, if you have determined that the starting dose for “Max” is 20 drops of burdock, twice daily, then you

can increase the dose 2 drops at a time until you reach 30 drops, if necessary. If a dosage needs to be decreased (if,

for example, valerian causes acute vomiting in your cat), cut the dose in half. If you feel it’s necessary, stop the

therapy altogether for a day or two, and let the animal’s body readjust before proceeding with the reduced dosage.

Most animals require a dose two to three times daily.

请记住，这只是一个起点。狗、猫和其他食肉动物的新陈代谢率比我们快得多；因此，以后可能需要增

加初始剂量才能达到您想要的结果。最大的错误是从绝对角度考虑剂量。相反，要注意你正在治疗的动

物；了解您正在使用的草药的副作用、禁忌症和活性性质；并且不要犹豫改变剂量。如果您需要增加剂

=== PAGE 38 ===
量，请以 10% 的增量进行，最多比起始剂量高 50%。换句话说，如果您确定“Max”的起始剂量是 20 滴牛

蒡，每天两次，那么您可以每次增加 2 滴剂量，直到达到 30 滴（如有必要）。如果需要减少剂量（例如，

缬草导致猫急性呕吐），请将剂量减半。如果您觉得有必要，请完全停止治疗一两天，让动物的身体重新

调整，然后再继续减少剂量。大多数动物每天需要服用两到三次。

The duration of an herbal therapy also depends on the specific animal and varies according to the disease you are

confronting. Generally, it is best to take at least a two-day break from herbal therapies each week (five days on, two

days off). This allows you to monitor the animal’s responses to the herbs and to alleviate any tolerance or toxicity

problems she may otherwise develop as a result of long-term use. The duration required to see results varies greatly

and is dependent on the nature of the herb, the animal, and the severity of the imbalance you are confronting. If

results don’t begin to materialize after you have maintained a maximum dosage schedule for more than seven days,

it may be time to try another herb or to consult your holistic veterinarian. In any case, keep detailed records of your

successes, failures, and observations. Exactly how long to maintain an herbal therapy can be determined only

through experience and familiarity with your animal, and good record keeping is instrumental to becoming an

effective herbalist.

草药治疗的持续时间还取决于具体的动物，并根据您所面临的疾病而有所不同。一般来说，最好每周停

止草药治疗至少休息两天（连续五天，休息两天）。这使您可以监测动物对草药的反应，并减轻她因长期

使用而可能出现的任何耐受性或毒性问题。看到结果所需的时间差异很大，具体取决于草药、动物的性质

以及您所面临的不平衡的严重程度。如果在您维持最大剂量计划超过 7 天后仍未开始显现结果，则可能是

时候尝试另一种草药或咨询您的整体兽医了。无论如何，详细记录你的成功、失败和观察结果。草药治疗

的确切维持时间只能通过经验和对动物的熟悉程度来确定，而良好的记录保存有助于成为一名有效的草药

师。

=== PAGE 39 ===
A FEW WORDS ABOUT TOXICITY

关于毒性的几句话

Serious adverse reactions are rare, but when used outside the parameters of common sense and moderation, any

plant can be toxic.

严重的不良反应很少见，但如果超出常识和适度的范围使用，任何植物都可能有毒。

Toxicity is dose dependent, relative to the rate of absorption and the individual’s ability to assimilate or eliminate

an excess. If a body receives a substance in quantities or concentrations that cannot be effectively dealt with by its

natural functions, the excess must be dealt with by emergency means. Vomiting, diarrhea, and other purgative

functions are then triggered to eliminate the invasive substance(s). If this fails, systemic shutdown or damage may

occur.

毒性是剂量依赖性的，与吸收率和个体吸收或消除过量的能力有关。如果身体接收到的物质的数量或浓

度无法通过其自然功能有效处理，则必须通过紧急手段处理过量的物质。然后触发呕吐、腹泻和其他泻下

功能以消除侵入性物质。如果失败，可能会发生系统关闭或损坏。

Most herbs that are commonly used in veterinary medicine are safe and forgiving—in most cases in which an

animal is hypersensitive to an herb or has received too much, she will vomit shortly after administration. Other

common indicators of toxicity include itching, photosensitivity, and diarrhea.

大多数兽医常用的草药都是安全且宽容的——在大多数情况下，动物对草药过敏或服用过多草药，在给

药后不久就会呕吐。其他常见的毒性指标包括瘙痒、光敏性和腹泻。

The key word in the avoidance of toxic reactions is moderation. Although herbs are generally weaker and gentler

medicines than most drugs, they still demand respect. “More” is not necessarily “better,” even in the employment of

nutritive “food-medicine” herbs such as nettle (Urtica spp.), alfalfa (Medicago sativa), or flaxseed (Linum spp.). All

of these herbs may cause digestive upset and dermatological reactions if fed to the animal in large quantities.

避免毒性反应的关键词是适度。尽管草药通常是比大多数药物更弱、更温和的药物，但它们仍然需要尊

重。 “更多”不一定是“更好”，即使是在使用营养性“食药”草药时，如荨麻 (Urtica spp.)、苜蓿 (Medicago

sativa) 或亚麻籽 (Linum spp.)。如果大量喂给动物，所有这些草药都可能导致消化不良和皮肤反应。

Aside from the issues of overdose and prolonged use, it is important to remember that some animals may have

allergies to certain herbs; a few are especially sensitive to certain plant substances; and some have preexisting

conditions. Therefore, to be safe, it’s always a good idea to proceed with caution. Start with a small dose, and watch

the animal for any signs of adverse reaction.

除了过量和长期使用的问题外，重要的是要记住，一些动物可能对某些草药过敏；少数对某些植物物质

特别敏感；有些人有既往病史。因此，为了安全起见，谨慎行事总是一个好主意。从小剂量开始，观察动

物是否有任何不良反应迹象。

=== PAGE 40 ===
WHEN TO TAKE YOUR PET TO THE VET

何时带您的宠物去看兽医

This book is aimed at enabling you to be somewhat self-sufficient in ensuring the health and welfare of your

companion animals. However, there are some problems that caregivers should not attempt to treat on their own at

home. Some of these include life-threatening situations such as poisonings; major traumas such as those caused by

being hit by a car; bleeding; broken bones; instances when the condition you’re treating at home doesn’t get better in

a few days; and cases in which there are questions or other avenues of treatment to be taken.

本书的目的是使您能够在一定程度上自给自足，确保您的伴侣动物的健康和福利。然而，有一些问题护理

人员不应尝试在家中自行处理。其中一些包括危及生命的情况，例如中毒；重大创伤，例如被车撞造成的

创伤；流血的;骨折；您在家治疗的病情几天内没有好转的情况；以及存在疑问或需要采取其他治疗途径的

情况。

Most of us believe that our animals must be seen by a vet in order to get treatment. In many cases this is true. But

holistic vets can’t be found in all areas of the U.S., so it becomes necessary for some of us to consult with a vet over

the telephone. Some holistic veterinarians do provide telephone consultations, but many don’t. No matter, it’s wise

to have a local vet to whom you can take your animals in case of a major trauma or if surgery is needed.

我们大多数人都认为，我们的动物必须去看兽医才能得到治疗。在许多情况下这是事实。但并非在美国

所有地区都能找到全面的兽医，因此我们中的一些人有必要通过电话咨询兽医。一些整体兽医确实提供电

话咨询，但很多不提供。无论如何，明智的做法是聘请当地的兽医，您可以在动物遭受重大创伤或需要手

术时将其带到他那里。

=== PAGE 41 ===
CAUTIONS, CONTRAINDICATIONS, AND POTENTIAL SIDE

EFFECTS

注意事项、禁忌症和潜在副作用

The following chart lists a few of the most common types of problematic plant compounds to be aware of in

the natural care of animals. This list is intended for the purpose of cautious awareness. It is by no means

complete, and the presence of one or more of these compounds in a specific herb does not necessarily

exclude that herb from safe use.

下表列出了在动物自然护理中需要注意的一些最常见的有问题的植物化合物类型。此列表旨在供谨

慎认识之用。它绝不是完整的，并且特定草药中存在一种或多种这些化合物并不一定排除该草药的

安全使用。

Anthraquinones

蒽醌类

Anthraquinones, including dianthrone glycosides, sennosides, aloe-emoden, chysophanol, among others, are

the active laxative constituents that are present in aloe (certain preparations), senna (Cassia senna), cascara

sagrada, and turkey rhubarb (Rheum palmatum). Anthraquinones act as laxatives by stimulating intestinal

peristalsis and may cause cramping and severe diarrhea if misused. These compounds are hard on the liver

and kidneys, and extended use of anthraquinone-bearing herbs may lead to dependency.

蒽醌，包括二蒽酮糖苷、番泻苷、芦荟大黄素、糜酚等，是芦荟（某些制剂）、番泻叶（决明）、

鼠李皮和火鸡大黄（大黄）中存在的活性泻药成分。蒽醌通过刺激肠道蠕动起到泻药的作用，如果

使用不当可能会导致痉挛和严重腹泻。这些化合物对肝脏和肾脏不利，长期使用含蒽醌的草药可能

会导致依赖性。

Coumarins

香豆素类

Coumarins include coumarin, medicagol, furanocoumarins, among others. Most coumarin-bearing plants do

not contain enough coumarins to represent a risk in normal therapeutic doses. Large doses of coumarins,

however, can cause photosensitivity. Coumarins are known to thin the blood and may potentiate the effects

of anticoagulant drugs. Coumarin-rich herbs such as red clover (Trifolium pratense) and alfalfa (Medicago

sativa) should not be given to animals with clotting disorders.

香豆素类包括香豆素、medicagol、呋喃香豆素等。大多数含香豆素的植物不含足够的香豆素，不足

以代表正常治疗剂量的风险。然而，大剂量的香豆素会引起光敏性。众所周知，香豆素可以稀释血

液，并可能增强抗凝药物的作用。富含香豆素的草药，如红三叶草（Trifolium pratense）和苜蓿

（Medicago sativa）不应给患有凝血障碍的动物服用。

Oxalic Acid and Oxalates

草酸和草酸盐

Oxalic acid and oxalates are present in many plants (a small amount is even present in fresh spinach), but can

be found especially in members of the Polygonaceae and Cruciferae families. Oxalic acid is characterized by

a tart, lemony flavor and is especially evident in the leaves of sheep sorrel (Rumex acetosella) and French

sorrel (Rumex scutatus ). Oxalic acid can cause urinary tract irritation, can deplete the body of vitamin B1,

and is known to bind with calcium in the urine—thus potentially causing stones. Although the oxalic acid

content of most herbs, such as yellow dock root (Rumex crispus ), is generally small and usually will not

cause a problem with moderately dosed, short-term use (up to fourteen days), it is best to avoid such herbs in

cases of preexisting kidney or urinary disease.

草酸和草酸盐存在于许多植物中（少量甚至存在于新鲜菠菜中），但尤其存在于蓼科和十字花科的

成员中。草酸的特点是酸、柠檬味，在羊酢浆草 (Rumex acetosella) 和法国酢浆草 (Rumex scutatus) 的

=== PAGE 42 ===
叶子中尤其明显。草酸会引起尿路刺激，会消耗体内的维生素 B1，并且会与尿液中的钙结合，从而

可能导致结石。虽然大多数草药（如黄酸模）的草酸含量一般很少，并且中等剂量、短期使用（最

多十四天）通常不会造成问题，但最好避免使用这种草酸。用于治疗已有肾脏或泌尿系统疾病的草

药。

Pyrrolizidine Alkaloids

吡咯里西啶生物碱

Pyrrolizidine alkaloids are present in many plants but most notably in comfrey (Symphytum officinale). Most

PA-bearing plants have received an undeserved bad name; it takes doses that are dozens of times in excess of

a therapeutic quantity to cause hepatotoxic effects—especially in a healthy liver. Nonetheless, there are

documented cases of liver damage (in both human and animal modalities) as a result of comfrey overuse.

吡咯里西啶生物碱存在于许多植物中，但最著名的是紫草（Symphytum officinale）。大多数含有 PA

的植物都受到了不应有的坏名声。需要超出治疗量数十倍的剂量才会引起肝毒性作用，尤其是在健

康的肝脏中。尽管如此，有记录表明过度使用紫草会导致肝损伤（人类和动物）。

There are hundreds of different alkaloid compounds present in thousands of medicinal plant species—many

are generally safe; some present a risk of toxicity. Many present themselves as the primary active constituent

of a plant. Perhaps the most frequently employed alkaloid in Western herbal medicine is berberine, the bitter

yellow substance that is found in Oregon grape (Mahonia spp.), goldenseal (Hydrastis canadensis), and a

few other plants. Berberine is generally safe, but overuse of berberine-rich plants may overstimulate bile

production (especially in cats), resulting in vomiting. Berberine is contraindicated in pregnant or lactating

animals.

数千种药用植物中存在数百种不同的生物碱化合物，其中许多通常是安全的；有些存在中毒风险。

许多本身就是植物的主要活性成分。也许西方草药中最常用的生物碱是小檗碱，这是一种苦黄色物

质，存在于俄勒冈葡萄（Mahonia spp.）、白毛茛（Hydrastis canadensis）和其他一些植物中。小檗

碱通常是安全的，但过度使用富含小檗碱的植物可能会过度刺激胆汁产生（尤其是猫），导致呕

吐。小檗碱禁用于怀孕或哺乳期动物。

Salicylates

水杨酸盐

Salicylates, including salicylaldehyde, salicin, methyl salicylate, salicylic acid, among others, are the

precursors to acetylsalicylate (aspirin). This means that herbs such as willow bark (Salix spp.), meadowsweet

(Filipendula ulmaria), poplar (Populus spp.), and others must be used with extreme caution in felines or

other animals who are sensitive to aspirin.

水杨酸盐，包括水杨醛、水杨苷、水杨酸甲酯、水杨酸等，是乙酰水杨酸盐（阿司匹林）的前体。

这意味着，对于猫科动物或其他对阿司匹林敏感的动物，必须极其谨慎地使用柳树皮（Salix

spp.）、绣线菊（Filipendula ulmaria）、杨树（Populus spp.）等草药。

Saponins

皂甙

There are hundreds of different saponin (soaplike) constituents in various plants. Most notably, saponins are

among the primary active constituents in valerian (Valeriana officinalis ), licorice (Glycyrrhiza spp.),

sarsaparilla (Smilax spp.), and yucca root (Yucca spp.). Saponins are characterized by their foaming, soapy

nature. Although they seldom present any problems, excessive or extended use of saponin-rich herbs can

produce GI irritation and vomiting, and some may eventually interfere with the absorption of fat-soluble

vitamins.

各种植物中有数百种不同的皂苷（肥皂样）成分。最值得注意的是，皂苷是缬草 (Valeriana

officinalis)、甘草 (Glycyrrhiza spp.)、菝葜 (Smilax spp.) 和丝兰根 (Yucca spp.) 的主要活性成分之一。

皂苷的特点是具有泡沫、肥皂性质。虽然它们很少出现任何问题，但过量或长期使用富含皂苷的草

药会导致胃肠道刺激和呕吐，有些可能最终会干扰脂溶性维生素的吸收。

=== PAGE 43 ===
Sterols

甾醇

Sterols include ß-sitosterol, stigmasterol, ampesterol, among others. Some plants, such as licorice, that

contain large concentrations of phytosterols or steroidal saponins can cause problems, such as water retention

and hypertension, similar to those presented by steroidal drugs but only if used excessively or over an

extended period. The side effects of phytosterols are much harder to procure, and can be largely avoided by

occasional breaks in the therapy (for example, five days on, two off) and with concurrent use of diuretic

herbs such as dandelion leaf and alterative herbs such as dandelion root and burdock.

甾醇包括β-谷甾醇、豆甾醇、ampesterol等。一些植物，如甘草，含有高浓度的植物甾醇或甾体皂

苷，可能会引起问题，如水潴留和高血压，类似于甾体药物所带来的问题，但只有在过量或长时间

使用的情况下才会出现。植物甾醇的副作用更难获得，并且可以通过偶尔中断治疗（例如，使用五

天，休息两天）并同时使用利尿草药（例如蒲公英叶）和替代草药（例如蒲公英）来很大程度上避

免根和牛蒡。

Tannins

单宁

Tannins such as corilagin pyranoside, ellagic acid, and gallic acid are found in the bark and leaves of many

herbs and are the most frequently employed astringents of the plant world. Herbs that are especially tannin

rich include uva ursi (Arctostaph los uva-ursi ), any part of the juniper (Juniperis spp.) plant, black walnut

hulls (Juglans nigra), and white oak bark (Quercus sp.). Tannins are typically used to reduce inflammations

of mucous membranes in the digestive and urinary tracts, but if used excessively they can have a reverse

effect, causing mucosal irritation. Herbs that contain tannins should not be used in animals with

inflammatory kidney disease. Some tannins are labor inducing (oxytocic) and may cause abortion in

pregnant animals.

单宁如吡喃柯里拉苷、鞣花酸和没食子酸存在于许多草药的树皮和叶子中，是植物界最常用的收敛

剂。单宁含量特别丰富的草本植物包括熊果 (Arctostaph los uva-ursi)、杜松 (Juniperis spp.) 植物的任

何部分、黑胡桃壳 (Juglans nigra) 和白橡树皮 (Quercus sp.)。单宁通常用于减少消化道和泌尿道粘膜

的炎症，但如果使用过量，可能会产生相反的效果，导致粘膜刺激。含有单宁的草药不应用于患有

炎症性肾病的动物。有些单宁具有引产作用（催产作用），可能会导致怀孕动物流产。

Volatile Oils

挥发油

Volatile oils include myristicin, apiole, terpineol, sesquiterpenes, menthone, pulegone, piperidinone, thujone,

jugulone, 3-octanol, among others. There are hundreds of volatile oil compounds, many of which make up

the aromatic principles of a plant, present in thousands of plant species. Menthol, for example, is a volatile

oil found in members of the mint family. The medicinal activities and toxicology of volatile oils are widely

variable, but most have an effect on the genitourinary and digestive tracts, causing irritation to the kidneys

and urinary passages when used in large quantities. Others, such as the pulegone found in pennyroyal

(Mentha pulegium) or the myristicin and apiole found in parsley seed (Petroselinum crispum) and nutmeg

seed (Myristica fragrans), are potentially hepatotoxic and nephrotoxic if used in overabundance. Volatile oils

have been shown to cross the placenta barrier to adversely affect the fetus of pregnant animals.

挥发油包括肉豆蔻苷、芹菜酮、萜品醇、倍半萜烯、薄荷酮、胡薄荷酮、哌啶酮、侧柏酮、胡古

酮、3-辛醇等。有数百种挥发油化合物，其中许多构成植物的芳香成分，存在于数千种植物中。例

如，薄荷醇是在薄荷家族成员中发现的一种挥发油。挥发油的药用活性和毒理学差异很大，但大多

数对泌尿生殖道和消化道有影响，大量使用时会刺激肾脏和尿道。其他物质，例如薄荷醇（Mentha

pulegium）中发现的胡薄荷酮或欧芹种子（Petroselinum Criscum）和肉豆蔻种子（Myristica

fragrans）中发现的肉豆蔻苷和芹菜籽，如果过量使用，则可能具有肝毒性和肾毒性。挥发油已被证

明可以穿过胎盘屏障，对怀孕动物的胎儿产生不利影响。

The s-methyl cysteine sulfoxide and n-propyl disuldhide contained in garlic has been shown to produce

=== PAGE 44 ===
Heinz-body anemia, a serious blood disorder, if the cloves are consumed in excess of 0.5 percent of the

subject animal’s body weight. This means that a healthy 60-pound dog would have to eat several cloves of

garlic just to start the Heinz-body process. The problem is dose dependent, meaning that blood structure

quickly normalizes when garlic use is reduced or discontinued.

大蒜中含有的 s-甲基半胱氨酸亚砜和正丙基二硫醚已被证明，如果大蒜的食用量超过对象动物体

重的 0.5%，就会导致亨氏体贫血，这是一种严重的血液疾病。这意味着一只 60 磅重的健康狗必须

吃几瓣大蒜才能开始亨氏体过程。这个问题与剂量有关，这意味着当减少或停止使用大蒜时，血液

结构会迅速恢复正常。

=== PAGE 45 ===
BASICS OF HERBAL PREPARATIONS

草药制剂的基础知识

The manner in which an herb is used is determined by a holistic assessment of the particular circumstances at hand

and the overall nature of the animal. Once you have investigated the origins of the symptoms that have caught your

attention, you can select the medicinal actions you need to confront the problem. This leads you to one or more

herbs that have a specific affinity to the body systems that are involved.

草药的使用方式取决于对当前特定情况和动物整体性质的整体评估。一旦您调查了引起您注意的症状的根

源，您就可以选择解决问题所需的药物措施。这会让您找到一种或多种对所涉及的身体系统具有特定亲和

力的草药。

Choosing the correct herb to fit therapeutic circumstances is critical not only to the effective treatment of disease

but also to the conservation of botanical resources. Many plant species are currently at risk of extinction because

they have been touted as “curative silver bullets.” But in reality, there are no cure-all herbs. In fact, no single herb

serves as a definitive cure for anything. For an herb to be used effectively and responsibly, it should be used only

within the true confines of its therapeutic capacity. It also must be used in a form or preparation that is

complementary to its medicinal attributes and the task at hand.

选择适合治疗环境的正确草药不仅对于有效治疗疾病而且对于保护植物资源也至关重要。许多植物物种

目前面临灭绝的危险，因为它们被吹捧为“治疗灵丹妙药”。但实际上，没有包治百病的草药。事实上，没

有任何一种草药可以包治百病。为了有效和负责任地使用草药，它应该只在其治疗能力的真正范围内使

用。它还必须以与其药用属性和当前任务相补充的形式或制剂使用。

Each herb’s physical and chemical structures determine how the herb should be prepared and subsequently

administered. For instance, many herbs are very water soluble, which means that if you pour hot water over them,

their medicinal constituents quickly and completely infuse into the water, making their desired chemical attributes

freely available for the body to absorb and use. Many other herbs, however, are poorly water soluble, which means

that if you pour hot water over them to make an infusion, little or nothing of medicinal value is drawn from the

plant’s tissues.

每种草药的物理和化学结构决定了如何制备和随后服用。例如，许多草药都是非常水溶性的，这意味着

如果你将热水倒在它们上面，它们的药用成分会迅速而完全地注入水中，使其所需的化学属性可以自由地

供人体吸收和使用。然而，许多其他草药的水溶性较差，这意味着如果将热水倒在它们上进行输液，从植

物组织中提取的药用价值很少或根本没有。

Following is an introduction to the basic how-tos of making herbal preparations. Those of you who collect books

will find that compared to other books on herbal medicines, the guidelines we offer here are loose. We have done

this for the sake of practicality and simplicity. While exact measurements and strict procedures are necessary

measures of quality control in the commercial production of herbal products, the self-reliant herbalist really doesn’t

have to worry so much about precision. As long as there’s enough herb, a strong-enough solvent, and the correct

type of preparation, you will be rewarded with a good, strong herbal medicine.

以下是制作草药制剂的基本方法的介绍。收藏书籍的人会发现，与其他草药书籍相比，我们这里提供的

指导方针比较宽松。我们这样做是为了实用性和简单性。虽然精确的测量和严格的程序是草药产品商业生

产中质量控制的必要措施，但自力更生的草药师实际上不必太担心精度。只要有足够的草药、足够强的溶

剂和正确的制剂类型，你就会得到一种好的、强效的草药。

=== PAGE 46 ===
DRIED BULK HERB MATERIAL

干散装药草材料

Dried bulk herbs are handy to have around because they allow for a great deal of diversity in how they can be

prepared and applied. In addition to being used in various herb preparations, some dried herbs can be sprinkled

directly onto an animal’s food. As a general rule, roots keep two to three times longer than dried leaf material. But

don’t stock up on more than you can use within one year, and be sure to store your herbs in airtight containers that

are kept away from sunlight. Regardless of proper storage methods, dried herbs eventually oxidize and lose their

potency. A few herbs lose much of their medicinal and nutritive value within days of drying. Buy herbs from an

honest, knowledgeable herbalist who knows the origin of his or her merchandise, or grow your own herbs to assure

optimum potency and shelf life.

干燥的散装草药很方便携带，因为它们的制备和应用方式有很大的多样性。除了用于各种草药制剂外，一

些干草药还可以直接撒在动物的食物上。一般来说，根的保存时间是干叶材料的两到三倍。但不要储存超

过一年内可用的草药，并确保将草药存放在密封容器中，避免阳光直射。无论采用何种正确的储存方法，

干燥的草药最终都会氧化并失去效力。一些草药在干燥后几天内就会失去大部分药用和营养价值。从诚

实、知识渊博、了解商品来源的草药师那里购买草药，或者自己种植草药，以确保最佳功效和保质期。

=== PAGE 47 ===
FRESH HERBS

新鲜的香草

Fresh herbs, clipped, dug, or plucked directly from a garden, are rich in nutrients and medicinal constituents.

Provided that their physical nature allows for the form of preparation you need, fresh herbs are without compare in

terms of medicinal potency. While most herbs are strong when used fresh, others require at least partial drying

before they impart their active components into a useful medium. Cascara sagrada (Rhamnus purshiana) bark is one

example. This herbal laxative is far too strong if used fresh and should be dried for at least a full year to mellow it

before use. It is also poorly water soluble when fresh, and until it dries it will not infuse adequately in water for a

good tea.

直接从花园里剪下来、挖出来或采摘的新鲜药草富含营养和药用成分。只要它们的物理性质允许您需要的

准备形式，新鲜草药的药效是无与伦比的。虽然大多数草药在新鲜使用时效果很强，但其他草药在将其活

性成分传递到有用的介质中之前至少需要部分干燥。 Cascara sagrada (Rhamnus purshiana) 树皮就是一个例

子。如果新鲜使用，这种草药泻药的药力太强，在使用前应干燥至少一整年以使其软化。新鲜时它的水溶

性也很差，在干燥之前它无法充分浸泡在水中以制成好茶。

=== PAGE 48 ===
HERB CAPSULES

草药胶囊

Because dogs and cats have short digestive tracts, encapsulated herbs tend to pass right through them. Even if they

don’t, you may find some difficulty in getting a large enough dose into your animal. In horses, sheep, llamas, goats,

and other herbivores, capsules work fine—but plan on feeding the animals dozens of them. In these animals, you are

often better off feeding the bulk herb or using an extract.

由于狗和猫的消化道较短，因此封装的草药往往会直接通过它们。即使他们不这样做，您也可能会发现很

难给您的动物注射足够大的剂量。对于马、绵羊、美洲驼、山羊和其他食草动物来说，胶囊效果很好，但

计划给这些动物喂食几十个胶囊。对于这些动物，通常最好喂散装草药或使用提取物。

=== PAGE 49 ===
ALCOHOL EXTRACTS, OR TINCTURES

酒精提取物或酊剂

With few exceptions, an alcohol tincture is by far the most versatile, strongest, and most readily usable form of herb

preparation. It can be administered orally; used in topical applications; diluted with water; or used as part of an eye,

hair, or skin rinse.

除少数例外，酒精酊剂是迄今为止最通用、最强效且最容易使用的草药制剂形式。可以口服；用于局部应

用；用水稀释；或用作眼睛、头发或皮肤冲洗液的一部分。

A tincture is prepared by soaking a measured quantity of fresh or dried herb in a certain proportion of alcohol and

water, using a specific formula for each herb. The alcohol serves as a solvent that breaks down the plant material and

releases the active ingredients into a liquid base called a menstruum. After two days to two weeks (depending on the

method used) the menstruum is then strained and pressed from the plant material (called the marc), to produce the

finished liquid product. Alcohol tinctures offer the advantages of maximum potency and unlimited shelf life

provided they are stored properly.

酊剂是通过将一定数量的新鲜或干燥草药浸泡在一定比例的酒精和水中，并使用每种草药的特定配方来

制备的。酒精充当溶剂，分解植物材料并将活性成分释放到称为溶剂的液体基质中。两天到两周后（取决

于所使用的方法），从植物材料（称为果渣）中过滤并压榨溶剂，以生产出液体成品。如果储存得当，酒

精酊剂具有最大效力和无限保质期的优点。

The concentrated liquid nature of tincture preparations allows for their quick and complete absorption into the

body, even in the short digestive tracts of dogs and cats. When kept in 1-ounce dropper bottles, they can be carried

anywhere and are easy to use. The biggest problem with alcohol tinctures is getting them into an animal. These

preparations are typically 30–70 percent grain alcohol, and while typical dosages do not present any alcohol-toxicity

problems, animals truly hate the way they taste.

酊剂的浓缩液体性质使其能够快速、完全地被体内吸收，甚至在狗和猫的短消化道中也是如此。当保存

在 1 盎司滴管瓶中时，它们可以随身携带并且易于使用。酒精酊剂的最大问题是让它们进入动物体内。这

些制剂通常含有 30-70% 的谷物酒精，虽然典型剂量不会出现任何酒精毒性问题，但动物确实讨厌它们的味

道。

To make an herb tincture from fresh herbs, add 1 part herb to 2 parts menstruum.

要使用新鲜药草制作药草酊剂，请将 1 份药草加入 2 份月经液中。

There are two basic methods for making tinctures: one is a process called percolation, the other, simpler method,

=== PAGE 50 ===
is called maceration. The percolation method entails using a specially designed, cone-shaped glass vessel. Herb

material is placed into the cone, then the menstruum is poured over it, left to stand for a short while, and eventually

allowed to trickle (or percolate) through the plant material and out a tube at the bottom end of the vessel.

制作酊剂有两种基本方法：一种是称为渗滤的过程，另一种更简单的方法称为浸渍。渗滤方法需要使用

专门设计的锥形玻璃容器。将草药材料放入锥体中，然后将溶剂倒在其上，静置一小会儿，最后让其滴流

（或渗透）通过植物材料并从容器底端的管子中流出。

Making herb tinctures by maceration takes more time, but it is much simpler and requires no specialized

equipment. To make a macerated tincture, herb material is placed into a glass jar, plastic container, or other

nonmetallic container. The menstruum is poured over the herb and the entire mixture is covered with an airtight lid

and allowed to soak for a period of two weeks. The menstruum is then strained from the plant material (the marc), to

produce the finished liquid product.

通过浸渍制作草药酊剂需要更多时间，但它要简单得多，不需要专门的设备。为了制作浸渍酊剂，将草

药材料放入玻璃罐、塑料容器或其他非金属容器中。将月经倒在草药上，将整个混合物盖上密封盖，浸泡

两周。然后从植物材料（果渣）中过滤出溶剂，生产出液体成品。

The proportions of alcohol and water needed to make an herb tincture vary according to the solubility of the herb

itself. Some herbs, such as milk thistle seed, require a high percentage of alcohol to extract optimum quantities of

active constituents from their cell structures. Other herbs, such as raspberry leaf, require little or no alcohol to

extract their useful compounds. Fortunately, knowing what percentage of alcohol you need is easy because these

determinations have already been done for you. Most of the formulas used in contemporary herbal practice are from

the U.S. Pharmacopoeia and other standard references that have been used in the pharmaceutical production of

simple herb extracts throughout most of the twentieth century. This information is still used by herbalists and

laboratories throughout the world and can be found in several books about herbs and herbalism.

制作草药酊剂所需的酒精和水的比例根据草药本身的溶解度而变化。一些草药，例如水飞蓟种子，需要

高比例的酒精才能从其细胞结构中提取最佳数量的活性成分。其他草药，例如覆盆子叶，只需要很少的酒

精或不需要酒精来提取有用的化合物。幸运的是，知道您需要多少酒精百分比很容易，因为这些确定已经

为您完成。当代草药实践中使用的大多数配方都来自美国药典和其他标准参考文献，这些参考文献在二十

世纪的大部分时间里一直用于简单草药提取物的制药生产。这些信息仍然被世界各地的草药师和实验室使

用，并且可以在几本有关草药和草药学的书籍中找到。

The amount of menstruum needed to extract the active constituents from a plant also varies. With most fresh

(undried) herbs, you will need a 1:2 ratio of herbs to menstruum. Most dried herb materials require a 1:5 ratio. This

means that to make a tincture from the fresh root of dandelion, you need one part of chopped herb material (by

weight) to two parts of menstruum (by liquid volume). For example, 16 ounces of fresh root must be covered with

32 fluid ounces of menstruum to make a tincture (and the menstruum must be at least 40 percent alcohol). If you are

using dried root, 16 ounces of dried root material will require 80 fluid ounces of menstruum to make a tincture.

Make sense? Don’t worry if it doesn’t; we’ll simplify in a moment. So how does one make a menstruum?

从植物中提取活性成分所需的溶媒量也各不相同。对于大多数新鲜（未干燥）的草药，您需要草药与月

经液的比例为 1:2。大多数干草药材料需要 1:5 的比例。这意味着，要用新鲜的蒲公英根制作酊剂，您需要

一份切碎的草药材料（按重量计）和两份月经液（按液体体积计）。例如，必须用 32 液体盎司的月经液覆

盖 16 盎司的新鲜根才能制成酊剂（并且月经液的酒精含量必须至少为 40%）。如果您使用干根，则 16 盎

司干根材料需要 80 液量盎司的溶剂来制作酊剂。合理？如果没有，也不必担心；我们稍后会简化。那么如

何来月经呢？

The most accurate and inexpensive way to make a menstruum is to buy pure grain alcohol (brand named

Everclear) at a liquor store. Everclear is 95 percent pure grain alcohol (190 proof). For simplicity, let’s just call it a

pure, 100 percent alcohol. To make a 70 percent alcohol menstruum, we would add 30 percent water to its volume

(i.e., add 3 parts water to 7 parts alcohol). If it’s a 50 percent menstruum we need, then all we have to do is add an

equal (50/50) amount of water. It’s that simple. Unfortunately, Everclear isn’t available in some portions of the U.S.,

so a medicine maker may have to do some liquor shopping. For tinctures that require 70 percent alcohol, uncut 151

proof rum works fine (it’s 75 percent alcohol). For a 50 percent menstruum, you can use 100 proof vodka (it’s 50

percent alcohol), and so forth.

配制月经最准确、最便宜的方法是在酒类商店购买纯谷物酒精（品牌名为 Everclear）。 Everclear 是 95%

的纯谷物酒精（190 度）。为简单起见，我们将其称为纯 100% 酒精。为了制备 70% 的酒精溶剂，我们需

=== PAGE 51 ===
要在其体积中添加 30% 的水（即，将 3 份水添加到 7 份酒精中）。如果我们需要 50% 的月经，那么我们所

要做的就是添加等量 (50/50) 的水。就是这么简单。不幸的是，Everclear 在美国某些地区不可用，因此制药

商可能不得不购买一些酒类。对于需要 70% 酒精度的酊剂，未切割的 151 度朗姆酒效果很好（酒精度为

75%）。对于 50% 的月经，您可以使用 100 度伏特加（酒精含量为 50%），等等。

Now here’s the simplified version of medicine making we promised. Get some fresh or dried herb, chop it up or

grind it as fine as possible, put it in a container, then add enough menstruum (of the appropriate strength) to just

barely cover the herb. Cover the container, then let it sit for two weeks, strain the mixture through a cloth, and store

the liquid in an airtight glass jar. Amber glass is best because it blocks ultraviolet rays that may damage your

tincture. You now have an herb tincture. The primary rule in this simplified method of making tincture is always to

use the correct percentage of alcohol in your menstruum. If you do, you will always end up with a nice tincture by

covering a maximum amount of chopped or ground herb with a minimum amount of menstruum.

现在这是我们承诺的制药的简化版本。取一些新鲜或干燥的草药，将其切碎或磨碎，尽可能细，放入容

器中，然后添加足够的月经剂（适当强度）以刚好覆盖草药。盖上容器，放置两周，用布过滤混合物，并

将液体储存在密封的玻璃罐中。琥珀色玻璃是最好的，因为它可以阻挡可能损坏酊剂的紫外线。你现在有

一种草药酊剂。这种制作酊剂的简化方法的主要规则始终是在月经中使用正确的酒精百分比。如果你这样

做，你总是会通过用最少量的月经覆盖最大量的切碎或磨碎的草药来获得美味的酊剂。

=== PAGE 52 ===
GLYCERIN-BASED HERB EXTRACTS, OR GLYCERITES

甘油基草药提取物或甘油酯

Glycerites are made essentially the same way as alcohol extracts, but a solution of 60 percent vegetable glycerin and

40 percent water is used in place of alcohol. The big advantage of glycerites in animal care is their palatability—

glycerin tastes sweet, with a flavor and consistency similar to light corn syrup. While some glycerin-based extracts

are not as potent as their alcohol counterparts, they allow pet owners to get the herbs into their animals in the first

place—hence, half the battle is won. Potency can then be adjusted by increasing the dosage. Vegetable glycerin is

refined from coconut oils, and despite its syrupy-sweet flavor, it is metabolized in a manner similar to that of

triglycerides, not sugar. This means it can be used safely in animals with alcohol sensitivity or in those with

diabetes. Glycerites do not keep indefinitely but remain viable for at least two years if refrigerated.

甘油的制备方法与酒精提取物基本相同，但使用 60% 植物甘油和 40% 水的溶液代替酒精。甘油在动物护理

中的一大优势是其适口性——甘油味道甜，其味道和稠度类似于淡玉米糖浆。虽然一些基于甘油的提取物

不如酒精提取物有效，但它们可以让宠物主人首先将草药摄入到他们的动物体内——因此，战斗就赢了一

半。然后可以通过增加剂量来调整效力。植物甘油是从椰子油中精炼而成的，尽管具有糖浆般的甜味，但

它的代谢方式类似于甘油三酯，而不是糖。这意味着它可以安全地用于对酒精敏感的动物或患有糖尿病的

动物。甘油不能无限期保存，但如果冷藏，至少可以保存两年。

The biggest disadvantages of glycerites are their limited shelf life (one to two years) and, in many cases, their

strength. Glycerin is not as strong a solvent as alcohol, and many herbs are not taken up well into a glycerin

menstruum, especially if they are of a resinous nature. However, some herbs, especially those that are highly water

soluble, release their active ingredients into glycerin very well. To find out if a particular herb that interests you is

good for making glycerites, refer to one or more of the books we recommend at the end of this section.

甘油的最大缺点是其保质期有限（一到两年），并且在许多情况下其强度也有限。甘油的溶剂强度不如

酒精，许多草药不能很好地被甘油溶剂吸收，特别是当它们具有树脂性质时。然而，一些草药，尤其是那

些高度水溶性的草药，可以很好地将其活性成分释放到甘油中。要了解您感兴趣的特定草药是否适合制作

甘油，请参阅本节末尾我们推荐的一本或多本书籍。

=== PAGE 53 ===
WATER INFUSIONS (HERB TEAS)

泡水（香草茶）

Infusions are made by steeping a specific quantity of plant material in hot water. The disadvantages of using teas

internally for animals are twofold: many animals don’t like tea, and it can be difficult to feed an animal enough tea

to bring about therapeutic results. Unlike tinctures, which provide a plant’s active constituents in a highly

concentrated, fully assimilable form, teas generally amount to a weaker medicine, and plant compounds that are not

water soluble are not imparted to the animal.

输液是将一定量的植物材料浸泡在热水中制成的。给动物喝茶有双重缺点：许多动物不喜欢茶，而且很难

给动物喂足够的茶来产生治疗效果。与酊剂不同的是，酊剂以高度浓缩、完全可吸收的形式提供植物活性

成分，茶通常是一种较弱的药物，并且不溶于水的植物化合物不会传递给动物。

Infusions are especially useful for skin and coat rinses and as vitamin- and mineral-rich tonic food supplements.

When mixed into an animal’s food, an herb tea provides most of what a dried or fresh herb offers in a form that is

quickly and more easily absorbed into the body. Herb teas also offer the advantage of melding with the flavor of an

animal’s diet without adding a new texture to the food—an important attribute for those who wish to feed nutritive

herbs to a finicky feline.

输液特别适用于皮肤和皮毛冲洗以及作为富含维生素和矿物质的滋补食品补充剂。当与动物食物混合

时，药草茶可以提供干燥或新鲜药草的大部分成分，并且更容易被人体快速吸收。药草茶还具有与动物饮

食的味道融合的优点，而不会给食物添加新的质地——对于那些希望给挑剔的猫科动物喂食营养药草的人

来说，这是一个重要的属性。

=== PAGE 54 ===
DECOCTIONS

汤剂

A decoction is an infusion that requires some gentle simmering to make a strong enough preparation for therapeutic

use. Decoction is required of many roots when the plant material is too insoluble in water to allow a strong enough

infusion. Decoctions should be prepared using a minimum of heat. Simmer the herb for about fifteen minutes at a

temperature that is only slightly above the boiling point. Too much heat destroys many of the plant constituents you

wish to employ. Decoctions are used in the same manner as water infusions, but they tend to be strong in

comparison.

汤剂是一种输液，需要温和地煮沸以制成足够浓的制剂用于治疗用途。当植物材料太难溶于水而无法进行

足够浓的浸剂时，需要对许多根进行煎煮。制备汤剂时应使用最少的热量。将药草在仅略高于沸点的温度

下煮约十五分钟。过多的热量会破坏许多您想要使用的植物成分。汤剂的使用方法与水输液相同，但相比

之下，汤剂往往更浓。

Completely cover the herb with olive oil to make an oil infusion.

用橄榄油完全覆盖药草，制成油浸剂。

=== PAGE 55 ===
Then cover the mixture and store for at least one month.

然后盖上混合物并保存至少一个月。

To make a poultice, mash the herb with water or vegetable oil until it forms a paste.

制作膏剂时，将草药与水或植物油一起捣碎，直至形成糊状。

=== PAGE 56 ===
Then you can apply the poultice directly to your animal’s skin or fur.

然后，您可以将药膏直接涂抹在动物的皮肤或毛皮上。

=== PAGE 57 ===
OIL INFUSIONS

输油

An oil infusion is produced by completely covering an herb with olive oil and allowing it to steep in a covered

nonmetallic container in a warm location for at least one month. The oil is then pressed out and stored in the

refrigerator for up to one year. Although several choices of oil can be used, olive oil possesses its own preservative

qualities, is relatively affordable, and is nourishing to the body, both internally and externally. Oil infusions are

excellent for topical applications, acting to soothe and protect the affected area while holding the herb constituents at

the site where they are applied. Extra caution should be used when applying oil to burns or infected areas because it

may seal in heat and bacteria.

油浸液是通过用橄榄油完全覆盖药草并将其在有盖的非金属容器中在温暖的地方浸泡至少一个月来制成

的。然后将油压出并在冰箱中保存长达一年。尽管可以使用多种油，但橄榄油具有其自身的防腐特性，价

格相对便宜，并且对身体有内在和外在的滋养作用。油浸液非常适合局部使用，可以舒缓和保护受影响的

区域，同时将草药成分保留在使用的部位。在烧伤或感染部位涂抹油时应格外小心，因为它可能会锁住热

量和细菌。

In these cases, make sure that the possibility of infection has been addressed with a good, clean antimicrobial

preparation and the burn has entirely cooled before anything is applied.

在这些情况下，请确保使用良好、干净的抗菌制剂解决了感染的可能性，并且在使用任何药物之前烧伤

部位已完全冷却。

=== PAGE 58 ===
POULTICES

膏药

A poultice is made by mashing plant material (usually dried foliage) with enough water or vegetable oil to make a

wet, pesto-like paste. Poultices are good in topical field applications when other preparations are impossible to

make. A simple poultice can be applied directly to an animal’s skin, or it can be made into a compress that can be

secured onto the animal. To make a compress, wrap the wet poultice in a piece of clean cloth, allowing the liquid to

freely soak through the cloth. Wrap the compress onto the affected body part and secure with knots.

膏药是通过将植物材料（通常是干燥的叶子）与足够的水或植物油捣碎制成湿的香蒜酱状糊状物而制成

的。当无法制备其他制剂时，膏剂在局部现场应用中效果很好。一种简单的药膏可以直接涂抹在动物的皮

肤上，也可以制成可以固定在动物身上的敷料。制作敷布时，将湿的膏药包裹在一块干净的布中，让液体

自由地渗透到布中。将敷料包裹在受影响的身体部位并用结固定。

To make a fomentation, secure a cloth over the affected area of skin and pour the infusion over it until the cloth

is soaked.

热敷时，将一块布固定在患处的皮肤上，然后将输液倒在上面，直到布浸湿。

=== PAGE 59 ===
SALVES AND OINTMENTS

药膏和药膏

Salves and ointments are simply thickened oil infusions. In making salves, beeswax is frequently used as the

thickening agent. The thinner ointment preparations typically employ coconut butter, particularly if the ointments

are to be used in suppository applications. The oil infusion is gently heated, and the beeswax or coconut butter is

melted into the liquid until the cooled product yields the consistency that is desired.

药膏和药膏只是稠化的油输液。在制作药膏时，蜂蜡经常被用作增稠剂。较稀的软膏制剂通常使用椰子

油，特别是当软膏用于栓剂应用时。将油浸液轻轻加热，将蜂蜡或椰子油融化到液体中，直到冷却的产品

达到所需的稠度。

For salves, use a ratio of 1 ounce of beeswax or cocoa butter to 8 ounces of oil. If the salve or ointment turns out

to be too thick or thin when it has cooled, gently reheat it and adjust the proportion of beeswax or cocoa butter.

Suppository molds and salve tins are available through herb catalogs and at some drugstores.

对于药膏，使用 1 盎司蜂蜡或可可脂与 8 盎司油的比例。如果冷却后发现药膏或软膏太厚或太薄，请轻

轻重新加热并调整蜂蜡或可可脂的比例。栓剂模具和药膏罐可通过草药目录和一些药店购买。

As with oil infusions, extra caution should be used when applying salves or ointments to areas of the body that are

burned or infected. In these cases, make sure that a good, clean antimicrobial preparation is used and that the burn

has cooled completely before applying any kind of topical treatment to the area.

与输油一样，在身体烧伤或感染的部位使用药膏或药膏时应格外小心。在这些情况下，请确保使用良

好、干净的抗菌制剂，并且在对烧伤区域进行任何局部治疗之前，烧伤部位已完全冷却。

=== PAGE 60 ===
FOMENTATIONS

热敷

A fomentation is used for topical applications where a water or oil infusion must remain on a particular body site for

a specific period. Gauze or another cloth material is placed over the area, and the infusion is poured onto the

dressing until it is soaked. Mustard packs, castor oil packs, and other traditional remedies employ this method. This

is a good approach for horses with fungal infections of the skin or other animals who don’t mind “wearing” an

herbal ornament for a while.

热敷用于局部应用，其中水或油输液必须在特定的身体部位保留特定的时间。将纱布或其他布材料放在该

区域上，并将输液倒在敷料上直至浸透。芥末包、蓖麻油包和其他传统疗法都采用这种方法。对于患有皮

肤真菌感染的马或其他不介意“佩戴”草药装饰品一段时间的动物来说，这是一个好方法。

=== PAGE 61 ===
STANDARDIZED EXTRACTS

标准化提取物

A standardized extract is more of a plant drug than an herbal medicine. These preparations are made by scientifically

increasing the content of certain active ingredients in order to bring about specific therapeutic effects. This is done

by removing a desired active ingredient from the chemistry of a particular plant species, then adding it back to the

extract at much higher concentration. For example, in nature, milk thistle seeds contain anywhere from 2 percent to

6 percent silymarin, the most medicinally active component of the plant. In cases of severe liver damage or toxicity,

a much higher percentage of silymarin may be needed to quickly bring about a therapeutic effect. A milk thistle

extract that has been “standardized” to as much as 80 percent silymarin can be used in such cases.

标准化提取物更像是植物药物而不是草药。这些制剂是通过科学增加某些活性成分的含量而制成的，以产

生特定的治疗效果。这是通过从特定植物物种的化学成分中去除所需的活性成分，然后以更高的浓度将其

添加回提取物中来完成的。例如，在自然界中，水飞蓟种子含有 2% 至 6% 的水飞蓟素，这是植物中最具药

用活性的成分。在严重肝损伤或毒性的情况下，可能需要更高比例的水飞蓟素才能快速产生治疗效果。在

这种情况下，可以使用水飞蓟素含量已“标准化”至 80% 的水飞蓟提取物。

On the surface, standardized extracts may seem like a superior form of herbal medicine. In the aforementioned

example in which milk thistle is indicated, this is absolutely true. However, it’s important to remember that when we

standardize an herb we alter its physical and energetic nature. Our manipulation of its nature is based on our

scientific understanding of only one or a few of its chemical components. In its natural form, each herb is composed

of hundreds of chemical components that are arranged in a unique, synergistic manner that cannot be replicated by

science. It is this synergy that makes herbs a mysteriously effective form of medicine. Every time that we alter the

chemistry of an herb, we change everything that the herb represents in terms of a natural and holistic medicine. To

the holistic herbalist, the question is not so much what can be gained by standardizing an herb but rather how much

is lost in the process.

从表面上看，标准化提取物似乎是一种高级形式的草药。在上述提到水飞蓟的例子中，这是绝对正确

的。然而，重要的是要记住，当我们标准化一种草药时，我们改变了它的物理和能量性质。我们对其性质

的操纵是基于我们对其一种或几种化学成分的科学理解。在其天然形式下，每种草药都由数百种化学成分

组成，这些化学成分以独特的协同方式排列，无法通过科学复制。正是这种协同作用使草药成为一种神秘

有效的药物形式。每当我们改变一种草药的化学成分时，我们就改变了该草药在天然和整体医学方面所代

表的一切。对于整体草药医生来说，问题不在于通过标准化草药可以获得什么，而在于在此过程中损失了

多少。

The bottom line is that standardized extracts are best reserved only for specific indications—they do not represent

a complete form of herbal medicine.

最重要的是，标准化提取物最好只用于特定的适应症——它们并不代表草药的完整形式。

=== PAGE 62 ===
THE CONNECTION BETWEEN HERBS AND DIET

草药和饮食之间的联系

To use herbs to the best of their potential, we must take on a holistic perspective of health and healing that views all

components of mind, body, spirit, and environment as equal parts of an individual’s well-being. At the core of this

“whole body” perspective is a good diet. Without balanced nutrition, the use of herbal medicines in the holistic care

of your animal is a waste of time, money, and plants.

为了充分发挥草药的潜力，我们必须采取健康和治疗的整体视角，将思想、身体、精神和环境的所有组成

部分视为个人福祉的平等组成部分。这种“全身”观点的核心是良好的饮食。如果营养不均衡，使用草药对

动物进行全面护理就会浪费时间、金钱和植物。

The food that your animal eats should provide all of the nutritional components that are necessary for all organs

and systems of a healthy body to perform in harmonious unison. A properly functioning body does an amazing job

of preventing disease and healing itself, and to do this it requires the energies and nutrients of a well-balanced diet.

However, sometimes the body needs special measures of outside support to optimize its healing efforts to assist the

body at working harder, faster, longer, or more efficiently toward reestablishing a balanced state of holistic health.

Enter herbs.

动物吃的食物应提供健康身体的所有器官和系统和谐一致运转所需的所有营养成分。一个功能正常的身

体在预防疾病和自我治愈方面有着惊人的作用，而要做到这一点，需要均衡饮食的能量和营养。然而，有

时身体需要特殊的外部支持措施来优化其治疗效果，帮助身体更努力、更快、更长时间或更有效地恢复整

体健康的平衡状态。输入草药。

A GENERAL HERBAL DIETARY ADJUNCT

通用草药膳食补充剂

Combine equal parts of the following:

将以下内容的等份组合起来：

spirulina

螺旋藻

nettle

荨麻

dandelion leaf

蒲公英叶

alfalfa

苜蓿

powdered flaxseed

亚麻籽粉

This formula can be fed at a rate of 1 teaspoon per pound of food fed daily (½ teaspoon daily for cats) as an

adjunct to a natural diet. While it may not fill all of an animal’s supplemental nutrition needs, it will

complement his diet with foodlike concentrations of fully assimilable protein, vitamin C, B complex

=== PAGE 63 ===
(including B12), vitamin A (beta-carotene), vitamin E, vitamin K, iron, potassium, calcium, phosphorus,

magnesium, and omega-3 fatty acids.

该配方奶粉可以每天每磅食物 1 茶匙的比例喂食（猫每天 ½ 茶匙），作为自然饮食的辅助品。虽然

它可能无法满足动物的所有补充营养需求，但它可以用食物般浓度的完全同化蛋白质、维生素 C、B

复合物（包括 B12）、维生素 A（β-胡萝卜素）、维生素 E、维生素 K、铁、钾、钙、磷、镁和

omega-3 脂肪酸。

Nettle is a good source of potassium.

荨麻是钾的良好来源。

Dandelion flowers are rich in lecithin.

蒲公英花富含卵磷脂。

In the holistic context in which they are used most effectively, herbs serve as functional adjuncts to good nutrition

by helping the body to use its innate and acquired resources more effectively. For example, echinacea does not act as

a substitute for the body’s immune system but serves to stimulate the body’s natural defenses into working harder,

thus boosting the body’s abilities to resist infection. Likewise, herbs such as dandelion root, Oregon grape, and

burdock assist in the elimination of waste from the body by stimulating the liver and gallbladder into working more

efficiently. These supportive functions are diet dependent: in order for an herb to call upon the body to do something

extraordinary, there must be an adequate store of energy and building materials with which the body can work.

在最有效使用的整体背景下，草药可以作为良好营养的功能性辅助剂，帮助身体更有效地利用其先天和

获得的资源。例如，紫锥菊并不能替代人体的免疫系统，而是可以刺激人体的自然防御系统更加努力地工

作，从而增强人体抵抗感染的能力。同样，蒲公英根、俄勒冈葡萄和牛蒡等草药可以刺激肝脏和胆囊更有

效地工作，从而帮助消除体内废物。这些支持功能依赖于饮食：为了让草药能够号召身体做一些非凡的事

情，必须有足够的能量和建筑材料来供身体工作。

=== PAGE 64 ===
Many people use herbs only for treating the symptoms of a disease in the absence of adequate nutrition and

without considering the whole being. For instance, if we use an herbal ear oil externally to treat a chronic ear

infection without addressing why the body is unable to fight the infection by itself, we are not using a holistic

approach toward healing. Instead, we are treating only the symptoms of a disorder that emanates from the body’s

inability to defend itself. While the ear oil may inhibit the external microbial cause of the infection, it is really doing

nothing more than serving as a natural alternative to any number of pharmaceutical preparations that may be able to

alleviate symptoms more quickly. However, if our goals are to reach beyond the symptoms to affect the underlying

causes of disease, the healing effort must begin by ensuring that the body is afforded everything it needs to heal

itself. In other words, we must provide the body with the foundation of holistic health—complete nutrition—before

our healing efforts with herbal medicines can begin to approach curative results.

许多人使用草药只是为了治疗疾病的症状，缺乏足够的营养，没有考虑整体。例如，如果我们在外部使

用草药耳油来治疗慢性耳部感染，而不解决为什么身体无法自行抵抗感染的原因，那么我们就没有使用整

体治疗方法。相反，我们只治疗因身体无法自我防御而产生的疾病症状。虽然耳油可以抑制感染的外部微

生物，但它实际上只不过是作为许多药物制剂的天然替代品，可以更快地缓解症状。然而，如果我们的目

标是超越症状，影响疾病的根本原因，那么治疗工作就必须从确保身体获得自我治愈所需的一切开始。换

句话说，我们必须为身体提供整体健康的基础——完整的营养——然后我们的草药治疗才能开始达到治疗

效果。

=== PAGE 65 ===
USING NUTRITIVE HERBS AS DIETARY SUPPLEMENTS

使用营养草药作为膳食补充剂

Many herbs are foods, and some provide nutritional qualities in such abundance that they can be used as nutritional

medicines or dietary supplements. Herbs provide minerals, vitamins, fatty acids, and other nutritional components in

a form that a body can fully utilize without becoming burdened with excess. Dandelion leaves, for instance, contain

impressive amounts of potassium and iron but not so much as to present a risk of toxicity. With nutritive herbs, the

body is given the chance to take the nutrients it needs and easily eliminate what it does not, unlike many highly

concentrated vitamin supplements that force the liver, kidneys, and digestive tract to work overtime at their jobs of

eliminating the excess. On the other hand, the nutritional content of herbs may vary considerably from plant to plant,

and in therapeutic or dietary situations where high concentrations of specific vitamins or minerals must be

guaranteed, herbs usually prove to be inadequate.

许多草药都是食物，有些草药提供的营养品质非常丰富，可以用作营养药物或膳食补充剂。草药以人体可

以充分利用的形式提供矿物质、维生素、脂肪酸和其他营养成分，而不会造成过量负担。例如，蒲公英叶

含有大量的钾和铁，但含量还没有达到中毒的风险。有了营养草药，身体就有机会获取所需的营养物质，

并轻松消除不需要的营养物质，这与许多高浓缩维生素补充剂不同，这些维生素补充剂迫使肝脏、肾脏和

消化道加班加点地工作，以消除多余的营养物质。 。另一方面，草本植物的营养成分可能因植物而异，在

必须保证高浓度的特定维生素或矿物质的治疗或饮食情况下，草本植物通常被证明是不够的。

Many herbs can be used as nutritional adjuncts to a good diet. Finding which nutritive herbs are best for the needs

of an individual animal comes from the one-on-one experience of the caregiver with his or her animal, but a simple

dried herb formula that can be used for most dogs, cats, horses, ferrets, and other animals can be found in the box on

page 38.

许多草药可以用作良好饮食的营养辅助剂。寻找最适合单个动物需求的营养草药来自于护理人员与他或

她的动物的一对一经验，但简单的干草药配方可用于大多数狗、猫、马、雪貂，以及其他动物可以在第 38

页的盒子中找到。

=== PAGE 66 ===
THE ETHICAL USE OF HERBS

草药的合乎道德的使用

We are living in a time when millions of people are turning away from anything they perceive as artificial,

unhealthy, or forced upon them. A huge natural health care industry has arisen, fueled by people who are eager to

embrace products, healing methods, and lifestyles that offer a healing step back toward nature. On the surface of this

“green revolution,” more people are becoming aware of the curative possibilities that exist beneath the trees, and a

renewed sense of hope for a healthy environment has been born. But in many ways, this scenario also brings about a

whole new level of environmental crisis. While a great deal of promise may exist in our growing awareness of

earth’s natural treasures, our journey toward “getting back to basics” is consuming resources faster than we can

learn to replace them. It seems that a great many of us have become so intoxicated by the freedom-based premise of

using selfprescribed natural alternatives, we have forgotten where they come from.

我们生活在这样一个时代，数百万人正在远离任何他们认为是人造的、不健康的或强加给他们的东西。在

人们渴望拥抱回归自然的产品、治疗方法和生活方式的推动下，一个巨大的天然保健行业已经兴起。在这

场“绿色革命”的表面上，越来越多的人开始意识到树下存在的治疗可能性，并且对健康环境的新希望已经

诞生。但从很多方面来说，这种情况也带来了全新水平的环境危机。尽管我们对地球自然宝藏的认识不断

增强，可能存在很大的希望，但我们“回归基础”的旅程正在消耗资源，而我们无法学会更换它们。似乎我

们中的许多人已经对使用自我规定的自然替代品的自由前提如此陶醉，我们已经忘记了它们来自哪里。

BASIC ETHICAL GUIDELINES FOR THE HARVESTING OF WILD

PLANTS

野生植物采收的基本道德准则

Follow these ethical guidelines if you wish to have the least impact on our earth while harvesting medicinal

plants from wild areas.

如果您希望在从野生地区收获药用植物时对我们的地球影响最小，请遵循这些道德准则。

• Never gather endangered or environmentally sensitive species. Many plants are abundant in certain

areas but relatively rare in others. Learn to recognize and use plant species in your home bioregion

that are abundant and resilient to human impact, while taking into account that the ecological niche

you see is a small, unique part of a much larger environmental picture. Get to know the general status

of the plants you are interested in from a global perspective. You may find that as an “ecoherbalist,”

your role among certain plants around your home is strictly that of guardian.

• 切勿采集濒临灭绝或环境敏感的物种。许多植物在某些地区丰富，但在其他地区则相对稀少。

学习识别和使用您的家乡生物区中丰富且能够抵御人类影响的植物物种，同时考虑到您看到

的生态位只是更大环境图景中一个小的、独特的部分。从全球角度了解您感兴趣的植物的总

体状况。您可能会发现，作为一名“生态草药师”，您在家里的某些植物中的角色严格来说是

守护者。

• Be absolutely certain of plant identification before you harvest. Gathering the wrong plants not only

may be harmful to you and your pets but may be wasteful and potentially damaging to the ecosystem

as well.

• 收获前要绝对确定植物的身份。采集错误的植物不仅可能对您和您的宠物有害，而且可能造成

浪费，并可能对生态系统造成破坏。

• Collect a small amount of plant material from several different stands to minimize your impact. Never

gather so much from a stand of plants that you can see a difference after your harvest. Remember,

mathematical solutions to the number of plants that can be ethically harvested do not apply in the

natural realm. The only way to determine how much is ethically acceptable is to begin learning about

=== PAGE 67 ===
the ecology of your bioregion before you harvest. Observe your impact over a long period of time,

and always gather conservatively.

• 从几个不同的展台收集少量植物材料，以尽量减少影响。切勿从一堆植物中采集过多的植物，

以免收获后您可以看到差异。请记住，可以合乎道德地收获的植物数量的数学解决方案不适

用于自然领域。确定多少在道德上可接受的唯一方法是在收获之前开始了解您的生物区域的

生态。长期观察你的影响，并始终保守地聚集。

• Never gather from a group of plants until you have thoroughly investigated the health, welfare,

sustainability, and interdependent elements of the entire area. Is there a healthier stand nearby? Is the

stand large enough to sustain your impact? Do you know the ecosystem well enough to harvest plants

in a manner that is conducive to its health? What may seem to be a lush, healthy stand of plants may

in fact be a biocommunity in trouble. Walk, look, listen, feel, and, most important, learn as much as

you can about the ways of the land before you begin your harvest.

• 在彻底调查整个区域的健康、福利、可持续性和相互依存要素之前，切勿从一组植物中采集。

附近有更健康的摊位吗？展台足够大以承受您的影响吗？您是否足够了解生态系统，能够以

有利于其健康的方式收获植物？看似茂盛、健康的植物群落实际上可能是陷入困境的生物群

落。走路、看、听、感觉，最重要的是，在开始收获之前，尽可能多地了解这片土地的情

况。

• Never gather more than you can conservatively use, bearing in mind that many herbs lose their

potency quickly after harvest. Unless you plan to make alcohol tinctures, expect no more than six

months to a year of shelf life for properly dried and stored herbs.

• 切勿采集超出您保守使用范围的草药，请记住，许多草药在收获后很快就会失去效力。除非您

打算制作酒精酊剂，否则正确干燥和储存的草药的保质期不会超过六个月到一年。

• Always ask permission before entering private lands, even if you are doing the landowner a favor by

pulling a few weeds. Check with your local land management agencies for permit requirements

before you begin gathering herbs from public lands.

• 在进入私人土地之前一定要征得许可，即使您拔掉一些杂草是在帮土地所有者一个忙。在开始

从公共土地上采集药草之前，请咨询当地的土地管理机构以了解许可证要求。

• Keep a journal of your observations during each visit to a harvest site and learn to work within

nature’s capacity. Remember, you will always be a student in nature, and there are no absolutes in

how an ecosystem operates. Maintain a set of wildcrafting site records, and keep a detailed log for

each wildcrafting venture. From these records, you can monitor your long-term impacts while

enriching your awareness of nature.

• 记录每次访问收获地点时的观察结果，并学会在大自然的能力范围内工作。请记住，您在大自

然中永远是一名学生，生态系统的运作方式没有绝对性。维护一套野生制作现场记录，并为

每个野生制作企业保留详细的日志。通过这些记录，您可以监控您的长期影响，同时丰富您

对自然的认识。

• Gather only from areas that are endemic to the plants you are looking for. Learn the typical elevation,

habitat, soil composition, exposure, and climatic requirements of each plant you wish to harvest, then

harvest from areas that match these criteria. Small, isolated stands of plants that have adapted to an

unusual set of environmental circumstances are particularly vulnerable to human impact and should

be used for learning, not for medicine making.

• 仅从您要寻找的植物特有的地区采集。了解您想要收获的每种植物的典型海拔、栖息地、土壤

成分、暴露程度和气候要求，然后从符合这些标准的地区进行收获。适应了不寻常环境条件

的小型、孤立的植物群特别容易受到人类的影响，应该用于学习，而不是用于制药。

• Learn the environmental issues of your area, and familiarize yourself with other people who have an

interest in the wild lands you will be working within, including other herbalists, the logging and

mining communities, developers, environmentalist groups, and government agencies. Learn about

their plans for the land, and adjust your activities. Plan ahead for the possibility of future impact.

• 了解您所在地区的环境问题，并熟悉对您将要工作的荒地感兴趣的其他人，包括其他草药师、

=== PAGE 68 ===
伐木和采矿社区、开发商、环保团体和政府机构。了解他们的土地计划，并调整您的活动。

提前计划未来影响的可能性。

• Find opportunities to salvage or transplant useful plants from areas that are scheduled to be heavily

impacted by human activities such as areas where trail or road construction is planned. Many areas

have ongoing native plant restoration projects under way. In these instances, you might be able to

assist with the survival of native species by “weeding out” the invasive, nonnative species.

• 寻找机会从计划受到人类活动严重影响的地区（例如计划建设步道或道路的地区）抢救或移植

有用植物。许多地区正在进行本土植物恢复项目。在这些情况下，您也许可以通过“清除”入

侵的非本地物种来帮助本地物种的生存。

• Find ideal stands that are representative of how a plant community should look, then don’t harvest

from them. Instead, preserve them for use as models from which to base your observations and

stewardship efforts at the sites from which you will be harvesting.

• 找到能够代表植物群落外观的理想林分，然后不要从中采摘。相反，请将它们保存为模型，作

为您在将要采伐的地点进行观察和管理工作的基础。

• Always use the correct tools and wear the right clothing to get your job done. Digging long taproots

from a steep, rocky hillside with a soupspoon while wearing penny loafers will result not only in

physical trauma to the herbalist but will tear apart the hillside as well. Be considerate of the

environment by acknowledging that the human body is poorly adapted to many of the tasks we

perform there.

• 始终使用正确的工具并穿着正确的衣服来完成工作。穿着便士乐福鞋，用汤匙从陡峭的岩石山

坡上挖长的主根，不仅会对草药师造成身体伤害，还会撕裂山坡。通过承认人体不太适应我

们在那里执行的许多任务来考虑环境。

• Never gather from stands that are wilted or otherwise unhealthy. Not only may sick plants have altered

chemistries but they may be covered with poison as well. Contact your county, state, or federal weed

abatement officials and learn about weed control programs in your area before you harvest anything.

Check your local noxious weed list, and see if there is an opportunity to reduce the distribution of

toxic herbicides by offering to hand-pull the plants for healing purposes. Many homeowners and

farmers will welcome you onto their land to gather plants such as dandelion, Saint-John’s-wort,

mullein, burdock, or countless others. By focusing your wildcrafting efforts toward plants that people

generally hate, you will be giving a precious gift of healing back to the environment by reducing the

use of toxic herbicides.

• 切勿在枯萎或其他不健康的摊位上采集。生病的植物不仅可能改变化学成分，而且还可能被毒

物覆盖。在收获任何东西之前，请联系您所在的县、州或联邦除草官员，了解您所在地区的

杂草控制计划。检查当地的有毒杂草清单，看看是否有机会通过手拉植物进行治疗来减少有

毒除草剂的分布。许多房主和农民都会欢迎您来到他们的土地上采集蒲公英、圣约翰草、毛

蕊花、牛蒡或无数其他植物。通过将你的野生制作工作集中在人们普遍讨厌的植物上，你将

通过减少有毒除草剂的使用来给环境带来治愈的宝贵礼物。

• Be as quiet as possible and plan every step when you enter a wild area. Stop frequently to look, listen,

and feel the earth; and don’t forget to look behind you to monitor the impact you may be causing

while en route to that special patch.

• 进入野外区域时，尽可能保持安静并计划好每一步。经常停下来观察、聆听和感受地球；并且

不要忘记回头看看你在前往那个特殊补丁的途中可能造成的影响。

• When gathering from a stand of plants, work at a deliberate pace that allows you to remain conscious

of your surroundings and of the task at hand. Harvest carefully and thoughtfully. Don’t attack the

plants; work as the loving caretaker you are.

• 当从植物丛中采集时，请以从容的节奏工作，这样您就可以保持对周围环境和手头任务的意

识。仔细、深思熟虑地收获。不要攻击植物；作为一个充满爱心的看护者。

• Always be careful to use the proper processing and storage methods for the herbs you gather. Spoilage

equates to waste—one of the worst types of vicarious human impact. Good wildcrafting ethics are not

=== PAGE 69 ===
exclusive to your time in the field—take care of the plants all the way from earth to medicine.

• 始终小心地对您采集的草药使用正确的加工和储存方法。腐败就等于浪费——这是人类间接影

响最严重的类型之一。良好的野生制作道德并不局限于您在野外的时间——从地球到医学的

整个过程中都要照顾好植物。

• Stay obscure during your harvest and field studies. If you attract uninvited attention to a stand of

plants, the result might be added impact from curious onlookers. A good rule is to always focus your

efforts in areas where you will remain out of the view of other people.

• 在收获和田间研究期间保持低调。如果你的植物群吸引了不请自来的注意，结果可能会增加好

奇旁观者的影响。一条好的规则是始终将精力集中在别人看不到的领域。

• Be critical of your human shortcomings. We are foreigners in wild areas. Strive to deepen your

awareness to understand that even the simplest organisms of nature serve complex roles in the

environment, and that we are all just beginning to learn the ways of the wild. Nothing is insignificant,

and virtually every organism in an ecosystem is interdependent with the plants we harvest.

• 批评你的人性缺点。我们是荒野里的外国人。努力加深你的认识，了解即使是最简单的自然有

机体在环境中也发挥着复杂的作用，而我们都刚刚开始学习野外生存方式。没有什么是微不

足道的，几乎生态系统中的每个生物体都与我们收获的植物相互依存。

• Never reseed a stand of plants to an extent that exceeds the natural density that existed prior to your

harvest. A human-engineered overpopulation of plants can be as devastating to an ecosystem as

careless overharvesting. Watch the bioregion from which you are harvesting over a period of several

years, and take note of how each species reseeds itself. Then try to replicate what nature would do in

your absence. Many plants compete with one another. Propagating an overabundance of a species

may be satisfactory to our conscience but may also pass a death sentence to dozens of noncompeting

plants and interdependent organisms.

• 重新播种植物时，切勿使其超过收获前的自然密度。人为造成的植物数量过多对生态系统的破

坏性可能与粗心的过度采伐一样严重。观察您在几年内收获的生物区域，并记下每个物种如

何重新播种。然后尝试复制你不在时大自然会发生的事情。许多植物相互竞争。过度繁殖一

个物种可能会让我们的良心满意，但也可能对数十种非竞争植物和相互依存的生物体宣判死

刑。

• Accept your personal weaknesses, identify your chronic mistakes, then add to this list your own

personal set of wildcrafting guidelines.

• 接受你的个人弱点，找出你长期犯的错误，然后将你自己的一套野生制作指南添加到此列表

中。

To learn more about the earth-conscious harvest, use, and preservation of wild medicinal plants, pick up a

copy of From Earth to Herbalist by Gregory L. Tilford (Mountain Press Publishing, 1998).

要了解有关野生药用植物的环保收获、使用和保存的更多信息，请阅读 Gregory L. Tilford 所著的

《从地球到草药师》（Mountain Press Publishing，1998 年）。

Many plant species are disappearing not so much because they are overharvested but because they are

misrepresented in the marketplace. Goldenseal (Hydrastis canadensis), for example, has been one of the most

popular North American herbs of commerce for centuries, but it is also one of the most misused. Like many other

herbs, goldenseal continues to be heralded as some sort of miracle medicine that is effective against virtually any

microbe that terrifies us enough to try something “alternative.” Indeed, the popularity of this and many other herbs

has arisen from therapeutic success stories and promising scientific studies, but most of their appeal is attributable to

marketing savvy and no small measure of consumer hysteria. In truth, most plant medicines work within narrow

parameters of therapeutic usefulness. Goldenseal is not a systemic antibiotic that courses through the body to fight

infection like a shot of penicillin; instead, it works only to inhibit microbes it comes in direct contact with on the

surface membranes of the digestive tract, eyes, and nasal passages.

许多植物物种正在消失，与其说是因为它们被过度采伐，不如说是因为它们在市场上被歪曲了。例如，

加拿大白毛茛（Hydrastis canadensis）几个世纪以来一直是北美最受欢迎的商业草药之一，但它也是最被滥

用的草药之一。与许多其他草药一样，白毛茛仍然被誉为某种神奇药物，几乎可以有效对抗任何让我们害

=== PAGE 70 ===
怕尝试“替代品”的微生物。事实上，这种草药和许多其他草药的流行源于治疗的成功故事和有前景的科学

研究，但它们的吸引力大部分归因于营销精明和消费者的歇斯底里。事实上，大多数植物药物的治疗作用

范围很窄。白毛茛并不是一种像注射青霉素那样在体内循环以对抗感染的全身性抗生素。相反，它仅能抑

制与其直接接触的消化道、眼睛和鼻道表面膜上的微生物。

We must also take into account that many medicinal plants are at risk of disappearing because of factors totally

unrelated to their uses as medicines. Pipsissewa (Chimaphila spp.), for instance, is used as a “secret ingredient” in

certain brands of soft drinks, and the habitat destruction associated with its harvest may be more devastating than the

loss of the plants themselves. Another example is goldthread (Coptis spp.), which is an old-growth forest inhabitant

that is quickly running out of places to live in the Pacific Northwest. Goldthread is not a popular plant of commerce

in North America, but the old-growth firs and cedars it lives beneath are.

我们还必须考虑到，许多药用植物由于与其药物用途完全无关的因素而面临消失的风险。例如，

Pipsissewa（Chimaphila spp.）被用作某些品牌软饮料的“秘密成分”，其收获带来的栖息地破坏可能比植物

本身的损失更具破坏性。另一个例子是黄连（Coptis spp.），它是一种古老的森林居民，在太平洋西北部很

快就没有地方居住了。金丝在北美并不是一种受欢迎的商业植物，但它生长的老冷杉和雪松却是。

And then there’s all the hype. Newsstands are packed with the latest word about scientific herbal breakthroughs,

even about the same medicines that just yesterday were considered “snake oil” in the eyes of science. Some herbs

are becoming as fashionable as the fastest computer: if you haven’t tried the latest herbal craze, then your life is

unnecessarily difficult. Don’t take Prozac—we’ve got Saint-John’s-wort, the herbal alternative for chronic

depression. Too busy to slow down? Don’t worry. The latest double-blind studies say that we can boost the body’s

immune system with echinacea, cat’s claw, astragalus, and ginseng.

然后就是所有的炒作。报摊上充斥着有关科学草药突破的最新消息，甚至包括昨天在科学界被认为是“蛇

油”的药物。有些草药正变得像最快的计算机一样流行：如果你还没有尝试过最新的草药热潮，那么你的生

活就不必要地困难了。不要服用百忧解——我们有圣约翰草，这是治疗慢性抑郁症的草药替代品。太忙没

时间放慢脚步？不用担心。最新的双盲研究表明，我们可以通过紫锥花、猫爪草、黄芪和人参来增强人体

的免疫系统。

Herbs are touching the far reaches of our society at an unprecedented rate. Much of what drives this green

revolution is born from solid scientific discovery and consumers’ independent desire to take charge of their health

and well-being. Certainly, these are good goals, but where do herbs come from? Is there something we should know

about their natural environment? What do these plants contribute to their ecosystems? Do they really work the way

that we are led to believe? What makes herbs different from conventional medicines? What effect is our

consumption having upon plant populations and their environments?

草药正以前所未有的速度触及我们社会的各个角落。推动这场绿色革命的动力很大程度上源于扎实的科

学发现和消费者掌控自己健康和福祉的独立愿望。当然，这些都是很好的目标，但是草药从哪里来呢？关

于他们的自然环境，我们有什么应该了解的吗？这些植物对其生态系统有何贡献？它们真的按照我们所相

信的方式工作吗？草药与传统药物有何不同？我们的消费对植物种群及其环境有何影响？

=== PAGE 71 ===
Our point is this: We have to be careful. If we wish to use and sustain our botanical resources into the future, we

must step away from all the hoopla long enough to find healthful solutions for the plants themselves. The answers to

all of the above questions rest within our willingness to look beyond the sensational advertising to see what herbs

really are and what they represent in the larger global scheme of things. Until we do, our herbal heritage will

continue to disappear under the pressures of ignorance, waste, and greed.

我们的观点是：我们必须小心。如果我们希望在未来使用和维持我们的植物资源，我们必须远离所有喧

嚣，为植物本身找到健康的解决方案。上述所有问题的答案取决于我们愿意超越耸人听闻的广告，看看草

药到底是什么以及它们在更大的全球计划中代表什么。在此之前，我们的草药遗产将在无知、浪费和贪婪

的压力下继续消失。

Many North American medicinal plants of commerce are now being cultivated, but sadly, many of them continue

to disappear from the wild. While part of the problem stems from unethical wildcrafting practices, the demise for

plants such as goldenseal and American ginseng originates from a complexity of economic and environmental

causes. As herbalists, we could easily point an accusatory finger at the herb industry, but this would not be fair.

Many herbalists have chosen to exclude wild plants such as goldenseal, American ginseng, black cohosh, and osha

from their personal medicine cabinets as a gesture, if not a preventive measure against their demise. But in sad

reality, such measures provide only a bandage treatment for a global problem. The painful truth is that too many

people are impacting too much of the planet for too many reasons. Indeed, consumer demands are taking a serious

toll on plants such as goldenseal and American ginseng, but these and thousands of other plant species are also

disappearing under the combined pressures of logging, grazing, mining, weed abatement, urban development,

farming, pollution, recreational impact, and several other human-centered factors.

许多北美商业药用植物现在正在种植，但遗憾的是，其中许多继续从野外消失。虽然部分问题源于不道

德的野生加工行为，但金毛草和西洋参等植物的消亡却源于复杂的经济和环境原因。作为草药医生，我们

可以轻易地指责草药行业，但这并不公平。许多草药师选择将白毛茛、西洋参、黑升麻和奥莎等野生植物

排除在个人药柜之外，这即使不是预防它们死亡的预防措施，也是一种姿态。但在悲惨的现实中，这些措

施只能为全球性问题提供绷带治疗。令人痛苦的事实是，太多的人由于太多的原因而影响着地球的太多地

=== PAGE 72 ===
区。事实上，消费者的需求正在对金毛草和西洋参等植物造成严重影响，但在伐木、放牧、采矿、除草、

城市发展、农业、污染、娱乐影响以及其他一些以人为本的因素。

So then, what can we do to save medicinal plants? On a community level, we can share what we learn from books

such as this one by educating others on the curative possibilities that may exist beneath the trees around their homes.

Show your neighbor a medicinal plant that grows on the roadside—such as mullein, dandelion, licorice, Saint-

John’s-wort, or milkweed—and raise the question of whether a weed is really just a weed. Tell people about the

plight of goldenseal, and remind them that the greatest curative gifts of this plant may yet to be discovered. Then tell

them they can use Oregon grape as a substitute.

那么，我们该如何拯救药用植物呢？在社区层面，我们可以通过教育其他人了解他们家周围的树下可能

存在的治疗可能性，来分享我们从这本书中学到的知识。向你的邻居展示路边生长的药用植物，例如毛蕊

花、蒲公英、甘草、圣约翰草或马利筋，并提出这样的问题：杂草是否真的只是杂草。告诉人们白毛茛的

困境，并提醒他们这种植物最伟大的治疗天赋可能尚未被发现。然后告诉他们可以使用俄勒冈葡萄作为替

代品。

On a personal level, you can accomplish even more. Join organizations such as United Plant Savers, become

involved with native plant clubs in your area, or become actively involved in land restoration efforts. If you use

herbs, learn as much as you can about the plants and the ecosystems they live in.

在个人层面上，您可以取得更多成就。加入联合植物保护者等组织，加入您所在地区的本土植物俱乐

部，或积极参与土地恢复工作。如果您使用草药，请尽可能多地了解植物及其生存的生态系统。

Above all, take time to evaluate and improve yourself as a consumer of our planet’s resources, and learn how to

give something back for everything you consume.

最重要的是，作为地球资源的消费者，花时间评估和提高自己，并学习如何回馈你所消耗的一切。

=== PAGE 73 ===
AN A-Z GUIDE TO HERBS FOR ANIMALS

动物草药 A-Z 指南

=== PAGE 74 ===
Chapter 2

第2章

Materia Medica

本草

These detailed monographs are specific to the identification, harvest, preparation, and applications of the herbs we

most frequently find useful in the care of animals. Please keep in mind that this is not an exhaustive list of the herb

resources that are available to you and your pet; it represents only a few that are most familiar to us and other

herbalists who find themselves involved in the care of animals. To list and describe the hundreds of other potentially

useful herbs that exist worldwide would be time and space prohibitive, if not impossible.

这些详细的专着专门针对我们最常发现对动物护理有用的草药的鉴定、收获、制备和应用。请记住，这并

不是您和您的宠物可用的草药资源的详尽列表；它只代表了我们和其他参与动物护理的草药师最熟悉的少

数。列出并描述全世界存在的数百种其他可能有用的草药，即使不是不可能，也是在时间和空间上令人望

而却步。

Despite all measures of scientific study or clinical success that may be in place to validate and substantiate the

efficacy and safety of an herb (or for that matter any medicine), it is important to remember that a golden rule must

never be forgotten: There are no absolutes in nature. Each individual animal is unique so no single herb can be relied

upon to work at the same level of effectiveness in each and every animal.

尽管可以采取所有科学研究或临床成功措施来验证和证实草药（或就此而言任何药物）的功效和安全

性，但重要的是要记住一条黄金法则永远不能忘记：本质上没有绝对。每只动物都是独一无二的，因此没

有一种草药可以对每只动物产生相同的功效。

With this rule in mind, we have also included a supplemental herb list at the end of this chapter where you will

=== PAGE 75 ===
find general information about several other herbs you may find useful in the care of your companion. The herbs in

this list should not be overlooked as lesser or secondary options but as resources worthy of further investigation.

Following is an explanation of the subheads:

考虑到这一规则，我们还在本章末尾提供了补充草药清单，您可以在其中找到有关其他几种草药的一般

信息，这些草药可能对您的伴侣的护理有用。此列表中的草药不应被视为次要或次要选择而被忽视，而应

作为值得进一步研究的资源。以下是对小标题的解释：

Appearance: Under this subheading is a brief physical description of the subject plant. Please keep in mind that the

plant descriptions we provide here are intended only to give you a general idea of what a specific plant looks like.

This book is not intended to serve as a definitive means of plant identification. The process of accurately identifying

a plant involves the use of a highly scientific botanical plant key that enables the user to systematically recognize or

rule out characteristics that are unique to a species. To obtain a botanical key that is specific to plants in your area,

visit your local library or obtain one from a bookstore. To learn how to use a botanical key, consider taking an

introductory botany class at your local college.

外观：该小标题下是主题植物的简要物理描述。请记住，我们在此提供的植物描述仅旨在让您大致了解特

定植物的外观。本书无意作为植物识别的权威手段。准确识别植物的过程涉及使用高度科学的植物植物密

钥，使用户能够系统地识别或排除物种独有的特征。要获取您所在地区植物特有的植物学密钥，请访问当

地的图书馆或从书店获取。要了解如何使用植物学钥匙，请考虑在当地大学参加植物学入门课程。

Habitat and Range: Under this subheading we tell you where you can expect to find the subject plant growing in

the wild. We may also mention which climatic regions are best suited to the cultivation of the plant.

栖息地和范围：在这个小标题下，我们告诉您可以在哪里找到野生生长的主题植物。我们还可以提到哪些

气候地区最适合种植该植物。

Cycle and Bloom Season: Here we inform you of the reproductive characteristics of the plant.

周期和开花季节：在这里我们向您介绍植物的繁殖特征。

Parts Used: Under this subheading we have listed the plant parts (leaves, root, etc.) that are most commonly used

by herbalists.

使用的部分：在此小标题下，我们列出了草药师最常用的植物部分（叶、根等）。

Primary Medicinal Activities: This is not an exhaustive list—most herbs offer dozens of medicinal activities,

many of which may be too weak to be of therapeutic value. Here we have listed the strongest and most predictable

effects the herb is likely to produce when used in a healing context with most animals.

主要药用活性：这并不是一个详尽的列表——大多数草药都提供数十种药用活性，其中许多可能太弱而没

有治疗价值。在这里，我们列出了该草药在对大多数动物进行治疗时可能产生的最强和最可预测的效果。

Strongest Affinities: Under this subheading we have listed the body structures or systems that are likely to benefit

the most from the medicinal activities of the herb.

最强的亲和力：在这个小标题下，我们列出了可能从草药的药用活性中受益最多的身体结构或系统。

Preparation: Here we have listed which types of medicinal preparation (infusion, alcohol tincture, glycerin tincture,

decoction, etc.) are best suited to the use of the herb.

制剂：这里我们列出了最适合使用该草药的药物制剂类型（输液、酒精酊剂、甘油酊剂、汤剂等）。

=== PAGE 76 ===
Common Uses: Under this subheading you will find the “meat” of the monograph. Here we identify and explain

what we feel are the best applications for the herb. This information is a mix of personal opinion, hands-on

experience, clinical observations, and scientific and anecdotal evidence.

常见用途：在此小标题下，您将找到专着的“核心内容”。在这里，我们确定并解释了我们认为该草药的最

佳应用。这些信息综合了个人观点、实践经验、临床观察以及科学和轶事证据。

We’ve included information about scientific studies that we feel are especially relevant to the use of herbs in

animals. We vehemently oppose any form of experimentation that imposes discomfort, disease, or a reduced quality

of life upon an animal. Such experimentation violates the foundations of holistic healing—wellness cannot be

sustained from induced suffering. However, we also feel responsible to the animals who have already suffered or

died at the hands of human science. We must do our best to assure that the knowledge we have gained from their

past suffering is not wasted, and that every shred of useful knowledge that humanity has gained through their

sacrifices is used for other animals in the form of better care and better understanding. In the realm of holistic

healing, there is no need or justification for future animal experimentation—but there is also no point in denying

ourselves or our pets the understanding we have already attained, even if by dark, arrogant means.

我们提供了有关科学研究的信息，我们认为这些信息与在动物身上使用草药特别相关。我们强烈反对任

何会给动物带来不适、疾病或生活质量下降的实验。这种实验违反了整体治疗的基础——健康无法从诱发

的痛苦中维持。然而，我们也对那些已经因人类科学而遭受痛苦或死亡的动物负有责任。我们必须尽最大

努力确保我们从动物过去的痛苦中获得的知识不会被浪费，并且人类通过他们的牺牲获得的每一丝有用的

知识都会以更好的照顾和更好的理解的形式用于其他动物。在整体治疗领域，未来的动物实验没有必要或

合理，但否认我们自己或我们的宠物已经获得的理解也是没有意义的，即使是通过黑暗、傲慢的手段。

Availability: Here you will find information specific to where you can access the herb.

可用性：在这里您可以找到有关在哪里可以获取该药草的具体信息。

Propagation and Harvest: Under this subheading is information about how to grow your own plants or how to

harvest and handle the herb in the wild. If harvesting wild plants interests you, please keep these three important

rules in mind before embarking on any wildcrafting ventures: 1) Do not pick any plants that are endangered or

scarce. 2) Beware of pesticides. Never gather plants from roadsides, cultivated fields, irrigation ditches, or other

areas where weed control efforts may have taken place. 3) You must be 100 percent certain of the identity of the

plant you are picking—before you pick it!

繁殖和收获：此小标题下提供有关如何种植自己的植物或如何在野外收获和处理药草的信息。如果您对收

获野生植物感兴趣，请在开始任何野生植物冒险之前牢记以下三个重要规则：1）不要采摘任何濒临灭绝或

稀有的植物。 2）谨防农药。切勿从路边、耕地、灌溉沟渠或其他可能进行过杂草控制的区域采集植物。

3) 在采摘之前，您必须百分百确定您正在采摘的植物的身份！

=== PAGE 77 ===
Alternatives and Adjuncts: Under this subheading we list and categorize herbs that serve especially well as

alternatives or as complementary additions to the herb we have been discussing throughout the monograph.

替代品和辅助品：在这个小标题下，我们列出并分类了特别适合作为我们在专着中讨论的草药的替代品或

补充品的草药。

Cautions and Comments: Here you will find any contraindications or side effects that we are aware of. You will

also find our comments and opinions relative to the overall safety or potential misuses of the herb.

注意事项和评论：在这里您可以找到我们所知的任何禁忌症或副作用。您还可以找到我们关于该草药的整

体安全性或潜在滥用的评论和意见。

References: Most of the scientific studies used to research each monograph can be accessed through the Internet at

the Medline Web site: www.medline.gov.

参考资料： 用于研究每本专着的大多数科学研究都可以通过互联网在 Medline 网站上获取：

www.medline.gov。

=== PAGE 78 ===
ALEALEA

爱丽雅

Medicago sativa

苜蓿

Pea Family

豌豆家族

Appearance: Alfalfa is a sprawling member of the pea family (Leguminosae) with small, tightly arranged blue or

sometimes pink or white flowers; small, prickly, seed-bearing pods; and cloverlike leaves.

外观：紫花苜蓿是豌豆科（豆科）的一个庞大成员，开着小而紧密排列的蓝色花朵，有时是粉红色或白色

的花朵；小的、多刺的、结有种子的豆荚；和三叶草般的叶子。

Habitat and Range: Widely cultivated throughout the world

栖息地及分布范围：世界各地广泛栽培

Cycle and Bloom Season: A perennial that first blooms in early summer, alfalfa continues to bloom after

successive harvests throughout the growing season as long as the climate permits vigorous regrowth.

周期和开花季节：苜蓿是一种在初夏首次开花的多年生植物，只要气候允许旺盛的再生能力，在整个生长

季节连续收获后就会继续开花。

Parts Used: Dried leaves, stems, unopened flowers

使用部分：干叶、茎、未开的花

Primary Medicinal Activities: Nutritive, anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, stimulates urination (diuretic)

主要药用活性：营养、抗炎、抗氧化、刺激排尿（利尿）

Strongest Affinities: Musculoskeletal system, digestive tract, liver

最强的亲和力：肌肉骨骼系统、消化道、肝脏

Preparation: Capsules, infusion, liquid extract, or dried bulk herb sprinkled onto food

制备方法：胶囊、输液、液体提取物或干散装药草撒在食物上

Common Uses: Alfalfa contains a broad spectrum of nutrients, including considerable quantities of protein (up to

50 percent by weight), trace minerals, dietary fiber, and vitamins A, B1, B12, C, D, E, and K. It is also high in

chlorophyll, which serves as an antioxidant in the bloodstream. All of this makes alfalfa particularly attractive as a

livestock feed. In addition to being highly nutritive, alfalfa is traditionally known as one of the best herbal

treatments for arthritis, rheumatism, and gout. Clinical research of the use of alfalfa in treating these diseases has

shown that at least 10 to 20 percent of human subjects experience dramatic reduction of painful symptoms.

Traditional uses in animals have commonly led to similar results. For arthritis and other inflammatory diseases of

=== PAGE 79 ===
the joints, alfalfa can bring long-term relief to dogs, cats, rodents, and horses and various other herbivores who

receive it as a daily food supplement. By now you probably see the value of this herb in the care of older animals.

For use in therapeutic doses, it works well when combined with dandelion, yucca, and licorice.

常见用途：苜蓿含有广泛的营养成分，包括大量蛋白质（按重量计高达 50%）、微量矿物质、膳食纤维和

维生素 A、B 1 、B 12

Medicago sativa

苜蓿

Alfalfa possesses cancer-preventive qualities as well. It is believed that alfalfa induces complex cellular activities

that serve to inactivate chemical carcinogens in the liver and small intestine before they can cause damage, thus

helping to reduce the risk of cancerous growths.

苜蓿还具有预防癌症的功效。据信，苜蓿能诱导复杂的细胞活动，从而在肝脏和小肠中的化学致癌物造

成损害之前将其灭活，从而有助于降低癌生长的风险。

Alfalfa’s considerable vitamin K content has been shown to be beneficial in remedying bleeding disorders that

may result from long-term use of antibiotics, anticoagulants, aspirin, and anticonvulsant drugs. The coumarin

constituent of alfalfa is also well known for its anticoagulant qualities, and in fact many anticlotting drugs were

derived from this compound. Excessive doses of fresh alfalfa or concentrated extracts may be contraindicated in

animals with anemia, but moderate dietary supplementation may be useful in some types of this disease.

苜蓿中大量的维生素 K 含量已被证明有助于治疗因长期使用抗生素、抗凝剂、阿司匹林和抗惊厥药物可

能导致的出血性疾病。苜蓿的香豆素成分也以其抗凝血特性而闻名，事实上许多抗凝血药物都是从这种化

合物中提取的。对于患有贫血的动物，过量服用新鲜苜蓿或浓缩提取物可能是禁忌，但适度的膳食补充剂

可能对某些类型的这种疾病有用。

The various saponin constituents of alfalfa are known to help with the absorption of fat-soluble nutrients in the

small intestine and may act to stimulate the body’s natural production of growth hormones—yet another reason for

=== PAGE 80 ===
its popularity as a livestock feed. In this capacity, alfalfa works by mechanisms very similar to those of yucca, but it

is much less irritating to the stomach and intestines than yucca and therefore can be used over longer periods without

adverse side effects. It may be especially useful in animals with debilitating diseases who need to gain weight but

cannot afford added stress upon compromised body systems.

众所周知，苜蓿的各种皂苷成分有助于小肠中脂溶性营养物质的吸收，并可能刺激人体自然产生生长激

素——这也是其作为牲畜饲料受欢迎的另一个原因。在这种能力上，苜蓿的作用机制与丝兰非常相似，但

它对胃和肠道的刺激比丝兰小得多，因此可以长期使用而不会产生不良副作用。对于患有使人衰弱的疾病

的动物来说，它可能特别有用，这些动物需要增加体重，但无法承受受损身体系统的额外压力。

In the urinary tract, alfalfa has an alkalinizing effect, making it useful in treating ailments that involve overly

acidic urine, especially where there is bladder irritation and crystal formation. This nutritional plant also helps an

animal adjust to a new diet.

在泌尿道中，苜蓿具有碱化作用，可用于治疗涉及尿液过酸的疾病，尤其是膀胱刺激和晶体形成的疾

病。这种营养植物还可以帮助动物适应新的饮食。

For the brain, alfalfa is said to help improve mental vigor. This is likely due to alfalfa’s broad spectrum of

nutrients, many of which are critical to proper nerve and brain functions.

对于大脑来说，苜蓿据说有助于提高精神活力。这可能是由于苜蓿含有广泛的营养物质，其中许多对神

经和大脑的正常功能至关重要。

Availability: Health food stores; can be propagated in a home garden

购买地点：保健食品店；可以在家庭花园中繁殖

Propagation and Harvest: Alfalfa is extremely easy to grow just about anywhere. In fact, if allowed to spread, it

quickly becomes competitive with everything else in the garden. Being a legume, alfalfa changes nitrogen into a

usable form within its extensive root system, making it a valuable soil-building ingredient when the plants are tilled

in. Unfortunately, the weedlike character of this plant overshadows its value as a soil builder. Digging the roots is

like pulling crabgrass, and tilling often results in even greater proliferation from the subsequent root cuttings. In

other words, buy certified organic alfalfa at an herb store, unless you wish to delegate a portion (or perhaps all) of

your garden to it. (A word of caution to the insistent gardener: If you plant alfalfa and then have second thoughts

about keeping it, remove it before it goes to seed. Once it does, it’s yours for life!)

繁殖和收获：苜蓿在任何地方都非常容易种植。事实上，如果让它蔓延，它很快就会与花园里的其他植物

竞争。作为一种豆科植物，苜蓿在其广泛的根系中将氮转化为可用的形式，使其成为植物翻耕时有价值的

土壤建设成分。不幸的是，这种植物的杂草特性掩盖了其作为土壤建设者的价值。挖根就像拔马唐一样，

耕耘通常会导致随后的根插条更加增殖。换句话说，请在药草店购买经过认证的有机苜蓿，除非您希望将

花园的一部分（或可能全部）委托给它。 （对坚持不懈的园丁的忠告：如果您种植了苜蓿，然后又考虑保

留它，请在它结籽之前将其除去。一旦结籽，它就属于您一生！）

Gather alfalfa before it comes into bloom. Cut (or mow) the plants during dry weather, cutting the stems at about

1 inch above ground level. Allow the herb to dry in an airy, moisture-free place that is away from direct sunlight

until it is completely dry, or make a tincture from the freshly cut greens.

在苜蓿开花之前收集它。在干燥的天气里切割（或割草）植物，在距地面约 1 英寸的地方切割茎。将药

草放在通风、干燥、避免阳光直射的地方干燥，直至完全干燥，或者用刚切下的绿色蔬菜制成酊剂。

Alternatives and Adjuncts: Dandelion, garlic, licorice, red clover, and yucca

替代品和辅助品：蒲公英、大蒜、甘草、红三叶草和丝兰

Cautions and Comments: Alfalfa is regarded as safe by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Although

adverse side effects are rare, many horse owners testify that consumption of too much fresh alfalfa may lead to colic,

a condition that can be serious in animals. This is due in large part to alfalfa’s saponin constituents. Although these

=== PAGE 81 ===
soaplike compounds are medicinally valuable, used in excess they may irritate the stomach lining and intestinal

mucosa, resulting in nausea and gastritis. Horses and rabbits cannot vomit, which greatly compounds the seriousness

of this side effect. The risk of colic occurring is greatly reduced by feeding only dried greens.

注意事项和评论：美国食品和药物管理局 (FDA) 认为苜蓿是安全的。尽管不良副作用很少见，但许多马主

证明，食用过多的新鲜苜蓿可能会导致绞痛，这种情况对动物来说可能很严重。这在很大程度上是由于苜

蓿的皂苷成分。尽管这些肥皂状化合物具有药用价值，但过量使用可能会刺激胃壁和肠粘膜，导致恶心和

胃炎。马和兔子不能呕吐，这极大地加剧了这种副作用的严重性。只喂干蔬菜可以大大降低发生绞痛的风

险。

The seeds of alfalfa have been found to contain a toxic amino acid, l-canavanine, which has caused blood

disorders in humans and in animals. Use alfalfa only during its prebloom stages of growth. Alfalfa can trigger

allergic responses in animals who are especially sensitive to pollens.

人们发现苜蓿种子含有一种有毒氨基酸，即左旋刀豆氨酸，它会导致人类和动物的血液疾病。仅在开花

前的生长阶段使用苜蓿。苜蓿可以引发对花粉特别敏感的动物的过敏反应。

=== PAGE 82 ===
ALOE

芦荟

Aloe spp.

芦荟属

Lily Family

百合家族

Appearance: Aloes are cactuslike members of the lily family (Liliaceae), having narrow, tapering, proportionately

thick, succulent leaves with spiny margins. There are perhaps five hundred species of aloe, but the most common

aloe of commerce is Aloe barbadensis, which we commonly know as aloe vera. This species produces its leaves

directly from a stout central stalk, in a rosette fashion, while several other varieties of aloe are branched, almost

bushlike. Aside from these variations, all aloes share a similar appearance and can grow very large. In some areas of

southwestern Africa, aloes are seen in excess of 25 feet tall with stems more than 10 feet in circumference. Flowers

are small, tubular, characteristically lilylike in appearance, and are produced in leafless, terminal spikes.

外观：芦荟是百合科（百合科）的仙人掌成员，具有狭窄、逐渐变细、厚度适当、多汁的叶子，边缘有

刺。芦荟大约有五百种，但最常见的商业芦荟是库拉索芦荟，我们通常称为芦荟。该物种的叶子直接从粗

壮的中央茎上长出，呈莲座状，而其他几种芦荟品种是分枝的，几乎像灌木丛。除了这些差异之外，所有

芦荟都有相似的外观并且可以长得很大。在非洲西南部的一些地区，芦荟高度超过 25 英尺，茎周长超过 10

英尺。花小，管状，外观典型地像百合，形成无叶、顶生穗状花序。

Habitat and Range: Aloes are indigenous to southern and eastern Africa and have been introduced to the West

Indies, where a great deal of commercial cultivation takes place. In areas of North America and Europe with

Mediterranean climates, aloes are used as landscape and garden plants. They are popular indoor plants throughout

much of the world.

栖息地和分布范围：芦荟原产于非洲南部和东部，现已被引入西印度群岛，那里有大量的商业种植。在北

美和欧洲的地中海气候地区，芦荟被用作景观和园林植物。它们是世界各地流行的室内植物。

Cycle and Bloom Season: Aloes are perennials that bloom opportunistically when mature. In other words, if they

receive all of the elements they require to thrive, they will likely remain in bloom throughout each year of their lives.

周期和开花季节：芦荟是多年生植物，成熟时会机会性地开花。换句话说，如果它们获得了茁壮成长所需

的所有元素，它们很可能会在生命中的每一年都保持盛开。

Parts Used: Primarily the gel-like juice of the inner leaf or the yellowish latex contained immediately beneath the

skin of the leaves

使用部分：主要是内叶的凝胶状汁液或叶皮下紧邻的黄色乳胶

Primary Medicinal Activities: Wound healing (vulnerary), soothes skin (emollient), anti-bacterial, antioxidant,

stimulates the immune system (immunostimulant), anticancer, antitumor, cooling to the skin.

主要药用活性：伤口愈合（创伤）、舒缓皮肤（润肤）、抗菌、抗氧化、刺激免疫系统（免疫刺激）、抗

癌、抗肿瘤、给皮肤降温。

=== PAGE 83 ===
Strongest Affinities: Skin, digestive system, lymph system

最强亲和力：皮肤、消化系统、淋巴系统

Preparation: Freshly pressed juice or stabilized (commercial) aloe gel preparations are the most commonly used

forms of aloe. Using this plant at home is as easy as cutting a mature leaf from the lower part of the plant and

squeezing out the juice. Intravenous formulations of aloe ingredients have been FDA-approved and are available for

use by veterinarians. Acemannan, a chemical compound found in aloe vera juice, is a powerful immunostimulant.

制备：鲜榨果汁或稳定（商业）芦荟凝胶制剂是最常用的芦荟形式。在家里使用这种植物就像从植物下部

切下一片成熟的叶子并挤出汁液一样简单。芦荟成分的静脉制剂已获得 FDA 批准，可供兽医使用。

Acemannan 是芦荟汁中发现的一种化合物，是一种强大的免疫刺激剂。

Common Uses: Aloe’s great claim to fame is from its use as a topical skin dressing. Fresh aloe juice or

commercially prepared gel contains dozens of minerals, proteins, enzymes, polysaccharides, and other elements that

help soften and soothe the skin and promote the rapid healing of minor burns and wounds. Topical application of

aloe gel will likely bring immediate, cooling relief to fleabites, poison ivy, and sunburns. It is also excellent for

reducing the itch and tightening of postsurgical incisions. Applied after sutures are removed, the gel reduces much

of the irritation that so often leads to persistent chewing or scratching and may result in inflammation and infection.

In any external application, apply enough juice to lightly cover the affected area and allow it to dry. If possible, keep

the animal from licking it off—the idea is to leave the juice on as long as possible. Unless your animal has an

adverse reaction to the juice (such as reddening or an allergy rash), aloe can be applied liberally once or twice per

day until the healing process is progressing well.

常见用途：芦荟因其用作局部皮肤敷料而闻名。新鲜的芦荟汁或商业制备的凝胶含有数十种矿物质、蛋白

质、酶、多糖和其他元素，有助于软化和舒缓皮肤，促进轻微烧伤和伤口的快速愈合。局部使用芦荟凝胶

可能会立即缓解跳蚤、毒藤和晒伤的症状。它对于减少瘙痒和收紧术后切口也非常有效。拆线后使用凝

胶，可以减少很多刺激，而刺激通常会导致持续咀嚼或抓伤，并可能导致炎症和感染。在任何外部应用

中，应用足够的汁液轻轻覆盖受影响的区域并使其干燥。如果可能的话，不要让动物舔掉它——我们的想

法是尽可能长时间地保留汁液。除非您的动物对果汁有不良反应（例如变红或过敏皮疹），否则可以每天

大量使用芦荟一次或两次，直到愈合过程进展顺利。

Internally, a small dose of aloe juice may be useful for healing minor injuries and irritations of the digestive tract,

such as those that may occur when Bowser swallows a jagged bone.

在内部，小剂量的芦荟汁可能有助于治愈消化道的轻微损伤和刺激，例如鲍泽吞下锯齿状骨头时可能发

生的情况。

Scientists have recently found that acemannan acts as a strong immunostimulant in animals, particularly in cats. It

has been found to be especially effective in the treatment of fibrosarcoma and feline leukemia virus (FeLV). It is

theorized that acemannan triggers an increase in the autoimmune attack upon the viruses believed to cause these

usually fatal diseases. Typically, over 70 percent of cats who become ill with FeLV die within ten weeks of the

onset of disease. But in a recent study, forty-four cats with confirmed FeLV were injected with 2 milligrams per

kilogram of acemannan weekly for six weeks and reexamined six weeks after the treatment ended. At the end of the

twelve-week study, 71 percent of the cats were alive and in good health. Acemannan has also been shown to be

effective against cancerous tumors in rodents and dogs. It has been FDA approved for veterinary use and will

undoubtedly be tested in humans.

科学家最近发现乙酰甘露聚糖对动物（尤其是猫）具有很强的免疫刺激剂作用。人们发现它对于治疗纤

维肉瘤和猫白血病病毒（FeLV）特别有效。据推测，乙酰甘露聚糖会引发对病毒的自身免疫攻击的增加，

这些病毒被认为会导致这些通常致命的疾病。通常，超过 70% 感染 FeLV 的猫会在发病后十周内死亡。但

在最近的一项研究中，44 只确诊为 FeLV 的猫每周注射 2 毫克/公斤的乙酰甘露聚糖，持续六周，并在治疗

结束后六周进行重新检查。在为期 12 周的研究结束时，71% 的猫还活着并且健康状况良好。乙酰甘露聚糖

还被证明可以有效对抗啮齿动物和狗的癌性肿瘤。它已获得 FDA 批准用于兽医用途，并且无疑将在人体中

进行测试。

=== PAGE 84 ===
Aloe barbadensis

库拉索芦荟

Other chemical compounds found in aloe juice have been shown to have antioxidant actions in the body.

芦荟汁中发现的其他化合物已被证明在体内具有抗氧化作用。

Availability: Aloe gel or juice (the difference being consistency) is available at health food stores. Any good

nursery has the plants.

可用性：芦荟凝胶或果汁（区别在于稠度）可在保健食品商店购买。任何好的苗圃都有植物。

Propagation and Harvest: Aloe is easy to grow as a houseplant. It requires well-drained, sandy soil and should be

watered only once or twice a month. Avoid using potting soil—it retains too much moisture and may cause rot

problems. Ordinary garden soil will do fine. A happy aloe that receives plenty of sunlight will bloom continuously

and reproduce aggressively from side-shoots. These shoots are easily transplanted into separate pots. If you live in

an area where frost is rare, aloe can be planted in a garden. Again, just give it plenty of sun, don’t overwater it, and it

will be yours forever.

繁殖和收获：芦荟很容易作为室内植物种植。它需要排水良好的沙质土壤，每月只需浇水一到两次。避免

使用盆栽土——它会保留过多的水分，并可能导致腐烂问题。普通的花园土壤就可以了。接受充足阳光的

幸福芦荟会持续开花，并从侧枝积极繁殖。这些芽很容易移植到单独的盆中。如果你住在很少霜冻的地

区，可以在花园里种植芦荟。再说一遍，只要给它充足的阳光，不要浇水过多，它就会永远属于你。

Alternatives and Adjuncts: Nothing really compares with aloe, but if you don’t have it around, look toward

chickweed, plantain, self-heal, and comfrey as topical alternatives. Internally, ginger, cayenne, red clover, cleavers,

dandelion, yarrow, garlic, and burdock are worth considering to complement the activity of aloe.

=== PAGE 85 ===
替代品和辅助品：没有什么能真正与芦荟相比，但如果你手边没有芦荟，可以考虑使用繁缕、车前草、自

愈剂和紫草作为外用替代品。在内部，生姜、辣椒、红三叶草、菜刀、蒲公英、西洋蓍草、大蒜和牛蒡值

得考虑来补充芦荟的活性。

Cautions and Comments: Aloe juice, although bitter, is generally safe for internal or external uses in dogs, cats and

most other animal types. However, be cautious of any products containing “Aloes.” Aloes consists of a sticky latex

that is extracted from the inner skin of aloe leaves. This latex possesses strong purgative qualities that may result in

digestive distress and severe diarrhea. Although several commercial laxative preparations use aloe latex in their

formulas, we strongly discourage their use in animals. It is believed that aloe components may be passed in mother’s

milk to nursing infants, so it should not be used in such circumstances.

注意事项和评论：芦荟汁虽然苦，但对于狗、猫和大多数其他动物类型的内服或外用通常是安全的。但

是，请谨慎对待任何含有“芦荟”的产品。芦荟由从芦荟叶内皮中提取的粘性乳胶组成。这种乳胶具有很强

的泻药特性，可能会导致消化不良和严重腹泻。尽管一些商业泻药制剂在其配方中使用芦荟乳胶，但我们

强烈反对将其用于动物。据认为，芦荟成分可能会通过母乳传递给哺乳婴儿，因此在这种情况下不应该使

用。

=== PAGE 86 ===
ARNICA

山金车

Arnica spp.

山金车属

Sunflower Family

向日葵家族

Appearance: Arnica is a classic sunflower with bright yellow daisylike flowers. Leaves oppose one another on the

stem and range from narrowly lance shaped to broadly heart shaped (depending on species). The leaves and stems of

most species are at least partially covered with fine hairs. Most arnicas are aromatic, particularly when the leaves are

bruised, with a distinctive pinelike odor. Arnicas are small plants, seldom exceeding 12 inches in height.

外观：山金车是一种经典的向日葵，花朵呈亮黄色雏菊状。叶子在茎上彼此相对，形状从狭长的矛状到宽

大的心形（取决于物种）。大多数物种的叶子和茎至少部分覆盖有细毛。大多数山金车都是芳香的，特别

是当叶子被碰伤时，具有独特的松树气味。山金车是小型植物，高度很少超过 12 英寸。

Habitat and Range: Arnica is a mountain plant that occurs in coniferous subalpine and alpine regions of western

North America from Alaska to the mountains of southern California, where it grows only above 9,000 feet in

elevation.

栖息地和分布范围：山金车是一种山地植物，生长于北美西部从阿拉斯加到南加州山区的针叶亚高山和高

山地区，仅生长在海拔 9,000 英尺以上。

Cycle and Bloom Season: Arnica is a perennial that blooms during its second year of growth and every year

thereafter. It is among the first flowers to bloom in early spring and is often one of the first to die back in early

summer. During dry years, arnica may not bloom at all.

周期和开花季节：山金车是一种多年生植物，在生长的第二年和此后每年都会开花。它是早春最早绽放的

花朵之一，通常也是初夏最早枯萎的花朵之一。在干旱年份，山金车可能根本不开花。

Parts Used: The entire flowering plant

使用部位：整个开花植物

Primary Medicinal Activities: Heals wounds, dilates blood vessels

主要药用活性：治愈伤口、扩张血管

Strongest Affinities: Muscles and subdermal capillaries

最强的亲和力：肌肉和皮下毛细血管

Preparation: Oil infusion, water infusion, fresh poultice, or commercially prepared gel

制剂：油浸剂、水浸剂、新鲜膏剂或市售凝胶

=== PAGE 87 ===
Common Uses: Arnica is used for closed-tissue injuries, including fractures, sprains, and contusions. It is perhaps

the best-known herbal sports medicine. Used topically, preparations of arnica act to open up peripheral capillaries

and lymph ducts and increase circulation in tissues that are engorged with fluids as a result of injury. When used

immediately after an injury occurs, results can be dramatic. In essence, arnica helps to speed the healing process by

moving wastebound fluids out and moving cleansing fluids and platelets into the affected area. Arnica is especially

valuable for treatment of horses and other large animals who are subjected to rigorous exercise and an occasional

twist or strain of the leg or hip joints. Arnica can be used on dogs as well, but special measures must be taken to

prohibit the animal from licking it off because arnica can be toxic if taken internally in improper dosages. Cats are

not excluded from the use of arnica, but they are more sensitive to arnica’s volatile oils and are more prone to

allergic reactions with this herb as they are with so many other substances. Test a small portion of your cat’s skin

before using arnica for an injury. Look for development of redness or other signs of irritation.

常见用途：山金车用于治疗闭合组织损伤，包括骨折、扭伤和挫伤。它可能是最著名的草药运动药物。局

部使用时，山金车制剂可以打开外周毛细血管和淋巴管，并增加因受伤而充满液体的组织的循环。如果受

伤后立即使用，效果可能会很显着。从本质上讲，山金车通过将废物结合的液体排出并将清洁液和血小板

移入受影响的区域来帮助加速愈合过程。山金车对于治疗马和其他大型动物特别有价值，这些动物需要进

行剧烈运动，并且腿部或髋关节偶尔会扭曲或拉伤。山金车也可以用于狗，但必须采取特殊措施禁止动物

舔掉它，因为如果内服剂量不当，山金车可能有毒。猫并不排除使用山金车，但它们对山金车的挥发油更

敏感，并且更容易对这种草药产生过敏反应，就像它们对许多其他物质一样。在使用山金车治疗伤口之

前，先测试猫的一小部分皮肤。观察是否出现发红或其他刺激迹象。

To use arnica on a dog or cat, apply enough of the infusion or gel to wet the skin of the animal (not just the fur),

then wrap the area with gauze or a piece of cloth and secure it so the animal cannot easily remove it. The idea is to

keep the preparation on the animal as long as possible. Arnica can be applied this way twice daily for up to three

days. Long-term applications should not be necessary and are not recommended because a rash is likely to develop

from overuse.

要在狗或猫身上使用山金车，请涂抹足够的输液或凝胶以润湿动物的皮肤（不仅仅是毛皮），然后用纱

布或一块布包裹该区域并固定，以免动物轻易去除它。我们的想法是尽可能长时间地在动物身上进行准

备。山金车可以这样使用，每天两次，最多三天。不需要也不建议长期使用，因为过度使用可能会出现皮

疹。

When used internally in carefully measured doses, arnica is said to act as a neurological device in cases of chronic

urinary incontinence that cannot be attributed to physiological pathologies. While use of arnica in this capacity holds

a great deal of promise for many animals suffering from urinary incontinence, the toxicity of this plant limits such

use to the advanced professional. Talk with a holistic veterinarian if you are interested in this use.

当以仔细测量的剂量内部使用时，山金车据说可以在不能归因于生理病理的慢性尿失禁的情况下充当神

经装置。虽然山金车的这种用途为许多患有尿失禁的动物带来了很大的希望，但这种植物的毒性限制了高

级专业人员的这种用途。如果您对此用途感兴趣，请咨询整体兽医。

Although this book focuses on herbal remedies, the value of arnica in homeopathic preparations should not be

overlooked. In a homeopathic capacity, arnica can be used internally with a great margin of safety. We have seen

amazing results with the use of homeopathic arnica at the onset of traumatic injury in animals, and keeping

homeopathic arnica on hand is as simple as purchasing a small vial of the tiny white pellets and slipping it into your

pocket, purse, or first aid kit. To learn more about using homeopathic arnica, we highly recommend Dr. Pitcairn’s

Complete Guide to Natural Health for Dogs & Cats.

尽管本书重点介绍草药，但山金车在顺势疗法制剂中的价值也不应被忽视。作为顺势疗法，山金车可以

内服，安全性很高。我们在动物遭受外伤时使用顺势疗法山金车取得了惊人的效果，并且将顺势疗法山金

车放在手边非常简单，只需购买一小瓶白色的小颗粒，然后将其放入口袋、钱包或首先急救箱。要了解有

关使用顺势疗法山金车的更多信息，我们强烈推荐皮特凯恩博士的猫狗自然健康完整指南。

=== PAGE 88 ===
Arnica cordifolia

心叶山金车

Availability: Arnica gels and tinctures are readily available from herb retailers. Seeds are available from specialty

seed catalogs.

可用性：山金车凝胶和酊剂可以从药草零售商处买到。种子可从专业种子目录中获得。

Propagation and Harvest: Arnica requires soil with plenty of organic matter and does best when its root system

can crawl around under a blanket of pine needles. Given that it is seldom found at altitudes under 3,000 feet except

in Canada, it likely has some specialized light- or air-quality requirements that prohibit it from flourishing in urban

areas. If you live in the mountains, arnica can be grown from seeds or root cuttings. But beware—the roots will

quickly consume your garden.

繁殖和收获：山金车需要含有大量有机质的土壤，当其根系可以在松针覆盖下爬行时效果最佳。鉴于除加

拿大以外，它很少出现在海拔 3,000 英尺以下的地方，因此它可能有一些特殊的光照或空气质量要求，禁止

它在城市地区繁衍生息。如果您住在山区，可以用种子或根插条种植山金车。但要小心——根部很快就会

吞噬你的花园。

To harvest arnica from the wild, grasp the stem of the flowering herb just above ground level, then snap it off,

taking only what you need. Take care not to damage the roots by pulling on the plant or stepping into a patch of

plants—the roots crawl horizontally, and the pressure of a human foot can injure them.

要从野外收获山金车，请抓住开花草本植物高于地面的茎，然后将其折断，只取所需的部分。小心不要

拉扯植物或踩进一片植物而损坏根部——根部水平爬行，人脚的压力可能会伤害它们。

After gathering what you need, you have the option of processing them fresh or allowing them to dry in a dark

place. Fresh plants yield a more potent infusion but spoil quickly in the refrigerator because of their water content.

Regardless, we opt for the use of fresh arnica. To learn how to make an oil infusion, refer to chapter 1.

收集完所需的材料后，您可以选择新鲜加工或在黑暗的地方干燥。新鲜植物的浸液效果更佳，但由于其

含水量，在冰箱中很快就会变质。无论如何，我们选择使用新鲜的山金车。要了解如何制作油浸液，请参

=== PAGE 89 ===
阅第 1 章。

Another option for the use of arnica in emergency situations is to make a simple poultice by mashing a flowering

plant with some water to make a pestolike paste. The poultice can then be applied to the injury as a crude ointment.

It can really work wonders when you’re out on the trail—just bear in mind that animals (or people) should not ingest

the poultice in any quantity.

在紧急情况下使用山金车的另一种选择是通过将开花植物与一些水捣碎制成香蒜酱状的糊剂来制作简单

的膏剂。然后可以将膏药作为粗软膏涂抹在伤口上。当你外出旅行时，它确实可以产生奇迹——只要记

住，动物（或人）不应该摄入任何数量的药膏。

Alternative and Adjunct Herbs: Saint-John’s-wort, ginger, cayenne, and yarrow are good choices as internal

adjunct therapies here. Saint-John’s-wort can be used topically as well and is especially useful if nerve trauma is

suspected.

替代和辅助草药：圣约翰草、生姜、辣椒和西洋蓍草是这里的内部辅助疗法的不错选择。圣约翰草也可以

局部使用，如果怀疑有神经损伤，则特别有用。

Cautions and Comments: Arnica can be toxic if ingested in anything but homeopathic or minute quantities and

may cause internal bleeding if ingested in large enough quantities. Because arnica works quickly to stimulate

dilation and circulation of peripheral blood vessels, it should not be applied to open, bleeding wounds. To do so

might actually increase bleeding and slow the coagulation process. Animals generally dislike the taste, but extra

measures are warranted to prohibit dogs and cats from licking arnica-treated areas.

注意和评论：如果摄入除顺势疗法或微量以外的任何东西，山金车可能有毒，如果摄入足够多，可能会导

致内出血。由于山金车可以快速刺激周围血管的扩张和循环，因此不应用于开放性流血伤口。这样做实际

上可能会增加出血并减慢凝血过程。动物通常不喜欢这种味道，但需要采取额外措施来禁止狗和猫舔经过

山金车处理的区域。

=== PAGE 90 ===
ASTRAGALUS

黄芪

Astragalus membranaceous

膜质黄芪

Pea Family

豌豆家族

Appearance: A typical member of the pea family, astragalus has finely divided leaves, small pealike flowers and

seed pods, and a sprawling, vinelike stature that brings to mind any of the hundreds of wild vetches that inhabit

much of the globe. Astragalus membranaceous, the species of commerce, may grow as tall as 6 feet, which gives it

an appearance that is similar to licorice (Glycyrrhiza spp.), yet another member of the pea family. There is a growing

belief among herbalists, botanists, and medical researchers that North American milk vetch (A. americana), a

common weed, may have similar medicinal attributes and may even be the same plant as A. membranaceous, the

medicinal astragalus of commerce. The Astragalus genus is large, consisting of hundreds of species, which in many

cases are difficult to differentiate even by trained botanists. Some varieties of Astragalus are toxic, and to compound

this mystery even more, these plants often cross-pollinate and hybridize. For now, no one knows whether or not we

have a wild, medicinal Astragalus in North America.

外观：黄芪是豌豆科的典型成员，具有细碎的叶子、豌豆般的小花和种子荚，以及蔓生的藤蔓状身材，让

人想起栖息在地球大部分地区的数百种野生野豌豆。黄芪是一种商业物种，可长到 6 英尺高，这使其外观

类似于豌豆科的另一种成员甘草 (Glycyrrhiza spp.)。草药学家、植物学家和医学研究人员越来越相信，北美

紫云英（A. americana）这种常见杂草可能具有相似的药用特性，甚至可能与商业药用黄芪为同一种植物。

。黄芪属很大，由数百个物种组成，在许多情况下，即使是训练有素的植物学家也很难区分。黄芪的某些

品种是有毒的，为了使这个谜团更加复杂，这些植物经常异花授粉和杂交。目前，没有人知道北美是否有

一种野生的药用黄芪。

Habitat and Range: An import from China, Astragalus has been cultivated throughout much of the world as an

important herb of commerce.

栖息地和分布范围：黄芪是从中国进口的，作为一种重要的商业药草在世界大部分地区都有种植。

Cycle and Bloom Season: A perennial that blooms from spring to early summer

周期和开花季节：从春季到初夏开花的多年生植物

Parts Used: Mature (at least three years old) roots

使用部分：成熟（至少三年）的根

Primary Medicinal Activities: Immuno-stimulant, anti-inflammatory, antiviral, mildly depresses thyroid function

(hypothyroid), lowers blood pressure (hypotensive), aids blood cleansing (alterative), strengthens digestion

主要药用活性：免疫刺激、抗炎、抗病毒、轻度抑制甲状腺功能（甲状腺功能减退）、降低血压（低血

压）、帮助血液净化（替代）、增强消化

Strongest Affinities: Immune system, lungs, liver, heart, kidneys, thyroid, digestive tract

=== PAGE 91 ===
最强的亲和力：免疫系统、肺、肝、心脏、肾、甲状腺、消化道

Preparation: Tincture or infusion

制剂：酊剂或输液

Common Uses: One of the best known and widely used herbs in Chinese medicine (where the herb is known as

huang qi), astragalus has found its way into Western herbalism by virtue of its widely versatile immune-

strengthening qualities. In Chinese medicine, astragalus root is considered sweet and mildly warm, tonifying the qi

(pronounced “chee”) and hoisting the yang. (Sweet and warm are terms used in Chinese medicine to describe an

herb’s relation to the body’s energy flows and do not relate to flavor.) Astragalus root is commonly used for spleen

and lung qi deficiency, including symptoms of emaciation, weariness, shortness of breath, loss of appetite, diarrhea,

and prolapse of the uterus or anus.

常见用途：黄芪是中药中最著名和广泛使用的草药之一（该草药被称为黄芪），凭借其广泛的多功能免疫

增强特性而进入西方草药学。中医认为，黄芪味甘、微温，具有补气升阳的作用。 （甘、温是中医术语，

描述一种草药与人体能量流动的关系，与味道无关。）黄芪常用于治疗脾肺气虚，包括消瘦、疲倦、气短

的症状、食欲不振、腹泻、子宫或肛门脱垂。

Astragalus is especially useful for strengthening the body against viral infections of the respiratory tract and heart

through stimulation of killer-cell activity and interferon production in the body. It imparts direct antibacterial and

anti-inflammatory qualities to this effort as well. Astragalus is a viable option for early treatment of various forms of

respiratory infection, including kennel cough (Bordetella bronchiseptica), a condition that theoretically involves this

bacterium’s opportunistic cooperation with various forms of virus. While astragalus works to stimulate T cell

activity and helps to raise white blood cell counts, it also boosts the body’s defenses through its liver-strengthening

attributes. In a study involving rats, saponin constituents were shown to enhance DNA synthesis in the liver—a

process believed to be a major factor in the strengthening of cell structures against infection or the introduction of

toxins. Other studies suggest that astragalus may be useful for helping the body protect itself and speed recovery

from the damaging effects of long-term steroid therapies. Astragalus is known to strengthen kidney circulation,

making it useful in early stages of kidney infection or renal failure.

黄芪通过刺激体内杀伤细胞活性和干扰素产生，特别有助于增强身体抵抗呼吸道和心脏病毒感染的能

力。它还为这项工作赋予了直接的抗菌和抗炎特性。黄芪是早期治疗各种形式的呼吸道感染的可行选择，

包括犬窝咳（支气管败血性博德特氏菌），这种疾病理论上涉及这种细菌与各种形式的病毒的机会性合

作。虽然黄芪可以刺激 T 细胞活性并有助于提高白细胞计数，但它还可以通过其强化肝脏的特性来增强身

体的防御能力。在一项涉及大鼠的研究中，皂苷成分被证明可以增强肝脏中的 DNA 合成，这一过程被认为

是增强细胞结构抵抗感染或毒素引入的主要因素。其他研究表明，黄芪可能有助于帮助身体保护自身并加

速从长期类固醇治疗的破坏性影响中恢复。众所周知，黄芪可以增强肾脏循环，使其在肾脏感染或肾功能

衰竭的早期阶段发挥作用。

=== PAGE 92 ===
Astragalus membranaceous

膜质黄芪

For any of the aforementioned purposes, up to 20 drops of the extract can be administered for each 20 pounds of

your animal’s body weight, up to twice daily.

出于上述任何目的，每 20 磅动物体重最多可施用 20 滴提取物，每天最多两次。

In addition to its broad-spectrum ability to boost resistance to disease, astragalus is traditionally used to boost

energy levels in debilitated people and animals, which adds to its promise as a candidate in the treatment of various

cancers, especially those compounded by depressed immune functions. For pet owners who are going through the

horrors of chemotherapy or radiation treatments for their animals, astragalus may offer a foothold in maintaining

some functional balance in an immune system that is stressed by both a disease and toxic intervention. To use

astragalus in this capacity, first consult a holistic veterinarian.

除了具有增强抗病能力的广谱能力外，黄芪传统上还用于提高虚弱的人和动物的能量水平，这增加了其

作为治疗各种癌症的候选者的前景，特别是那些因免疫功能低下而加剧的癌症。对于正在经历动物化疗或

放射治疗恐惧的宠物主人来说，黄芪可能为维持免疫系统的功能平衡提供立足点，而免疫系统因疾病和有

毒干预而受到压力。要以这种方式使用黄芪，请首先咨询整体兽医。

Astragalus is also known to have antiviral qualities that are specific to infections of the heart. Again, if you

suspect a problem of this serious nature, talk to a holistic veterinarian.

黄芪还具有针对心脏感染的抗病毒特性。再次强调，如果您怀疑存在如此严重的问题，请咨询整体兽

医。

Availability: Astragalus is available through many herb retailers. The seed can be purchased from specialty seed

catalogs.

可用性：黄芪可通过许多草药零售商购买。种子可以从专业种子目录中购买。

=== PAGE 93 ===
Propagation and Harvest: Astragalus is easy to grow from seed—some rich soil, full sun, and ample watering are

all it requires to thrive. If you decide to grow this plant in your garden, however, choose a place where it can remain

for quite some time. Astragalus roots require three or more years to reach their full medicinal potential, and during

this time, the plants will likely spread throughout the area where they were planted. Do not plant astragalus unless

you are certain that the seed you have is in fact A. membranaceous, and do not plant astragalus if you live in an area

where soils have a high selenium (a nonmetallic element) content.

繁殖和收获：黄芪很容易从种子开始生长——它需要肥沃的土壤、充足的阳光和充足的浇水才能茁壮成

长。然而，如果您决定在花园里种植这种植物，请选择一个可以让它保留相当长一段时间的地方。黄芪根

需要三年或更长时间才能充分发挥其药用潜力，在此期间，植物可能会遍布其种植的整个区域。除非您确

定您拥有的种子确实是膜质的，否则请勿种植黄芪，并且如果您居住在土壤硒（一种非金属元素）含量较

高的地区，请勿种植黄芪。

Alternatives and Adjuncts: For respiratory infections, astragalus combines well with coltsfoot, grindelia, or

mullein leaf. For kidney infections or dysfunction, couch grass, corn silk, pipsissewa, and goldenrod are noteworthy

adjuncts. For use in situations involving liver toxicity, cancer, or depressed immune functions, gentle tonic herbs

with diuretic, alterative, and nutritive qualities are indicated to help remove toxins and excess waste from the body.

Dandelion, burdock, red clover, licorice, and alfalfa are excellent herbs to investigate.

替代品和辅助剂：对于呼吸道感染，黄芪与款冬、刺槐或毛蕊花可以很好地结合使用。对于肾脏感染或功

能障碍，沙发草、玉米须、pipsissewa 和黄花是值得注意的辅助药物。对于涉及肝毒性、癌症或免疫功能低

下的情况，可以使用具有利尿、替代和营养特性的温和滋补草药，以帮助清除体内的毒素和多余废物。蒲

公英、牛蒡、红三叶草、甘草和苜蓿都是值得研究的优秀草药。

For an overactive thyroid, Astragalus works well by itself, but if you don’t have access to any, an alternative

choice might be bugleweed.

对于甲状腺功能亢进的患者，黄芪本身效果很好，但如果您无法获得任何黄芪，另一种选择可能是黄

芪。

Cautions and Comments: While A. membranaceous, the medicinal variety of Astragalus, is among the safest of

medicinal herbs for both humans and animals, many other species of Astragalus are toxic, especially to grazing

animals. Buy astragalus roots, preparations, and seeds only from reputable sources. Also, astragalus is known to

accumulate selenium in its tissues in areas where a high selenium content is present in the soil. Selenium can be

toxic in high doses. Check with your county extension agent before planting this herb.

注意事项和评论：虽然黄芪的药用品种黄芪是对人类和动物最安全的药草之一，但许多其他黄芪种类是有

毒的，尤其是对食草动物。仅从信誉良好的来源购买黄芪根、制剂和种子。此外，在土壤中硒含量高的地

区，黄芪会在其组织中积累硒。高剂量的硒可能有毒。在种植这种药草之前，请咨询您所在县的推广代

理。

In Chinese medicine, astragalus is contraindicated in “excess heat” and “yin deficiency” patterns.

中医认为，“实热”、“阴虚”证忌服黄芪。

=== PAGE 94 ===
BEE BALM

蜂香膏

Monarda spp.

美洲薄荷属

Mint Family

薄荷家族

Appearance: This pungent genus of dry land mints is known by many common names: wild bergamot, purple bee

balm, horsemint, wild oregano, Oswego tea, and sweet leaf. Leaves are lance shaped, oppose one another on the

stem, and have a tendency to curve backward toward the ground. Leaf margins are sometimes, but not always,

toothed. Like most members of the mint family, the stems of bee balm are distinctively square (four-sided). Flowers

are presented in clusters at the top of the plant, each containing dozens of tiny, rose- to purple-colored blossoms.

Perhaps the most distinguishing characteristic of this plant is its strong but pleasant odor, which ranges from sweetly

sagelike to that which leads many to believe they have discovered a wild strain of oregano. The plant can grow to 3

feet on its sturdy stems, but most are found in the range of 6 to 18 inches tall.

外观：这种辛辣的旱地薄荷属植物有许多俗名：野生佛手柑、紫蜂香脂、马薄荷、野生牛至、奥斯威戈茶

和甜叶。叶子呈矛状，在茎上彼此相对，并且有向后弯曲到地面的倾向。叶缘有时但并非总是有齿。与薄

荷家族的大多数成员一样，蜂香膏的茎呈独特的方形（四边形）。花朵成簇出现在植物的顶部，每朵都含

有数十朵微小的玫瑰色到紫色的花朵。也许这种植物最显着的特征是其强烈而令人愉悦的气味，从甜美的

鼠尾草气味到让许多人相信他们发现了野生牛至品种的气味。这种植物在其坚固的茎上可以长到 3 英尺，

但大多数高度在 6 到 18 英寸之间。

Habitat and Range: Wild bee balm likes meadows and slopes that are predominantly dry and sunny. Unlike most

mints, bee balm is drought tolerant and prefers dry land habitats. Bee balm (M. fistulosa) is generally found at

elevations below 4,000 feet. Other varieties of Monarda, such as M. menthaefolia, grow at higher elevations in

shady, moist soils.

栖息地和范围：野生蜂香膏喜欢干燥和阳光充足的草地和斜坡。与大多数薄荷糖不同，蜂香脂具有耐旱

性，更喜欢干燥的土地栖息地。蜂香膏 (M. fistulosa) 通常出现在海拔 4,000 英尺以下的地方。其他美国薄荷

品种，例如薄荷薄荷，生长在海拔较高、阴凉潮湿的土壤中。

The range of this plant remains largely undefined, but in the U.S. it seems to be spreading westward from the east.

Livestock enjoy grazing on this plant and have undoubtedly served as a vehicle in the expansion of bee balm’s

range.

这种植物的分布范围在很大程度上仍不明确，但在美国，它似乎正在从东部向西蔓延。牲畜喜欢在这种

植物上吃草，这无疑成为了扩大蜂膏范围的工具。

Cycle and Bloom Season: A perennial that blooms by midsummer and often continues to bloom until the first frost

周期和开花季节：一种多年生植物，在仲夏开花，通常持续开花直到第一次霜冻

Parts Used: Leaves plucked from the plant; the entire aerial plant if the stem is taken

使用部分：从植物中摘下的叶子；整个气生植物（如果取茎）

Primary Medicinal Activities: promotes sweating (diaphoretic), expels intestinal gas (carminative), antiseptic,

=== PAGE 95 ===
reduces pain (analgesic), antifungal

主要药用活性：促进出汗（发汗）、排出肠气（驱风）、抗菌、减轻疼痛（镇痛）、抗真菌

Strongest Affinities: Skin, mouth, digestive tract, kidneys, urinary tract

亲和力最强：皮肤、口腔、消化道、肾脏、泌尿道

Monarda fistulosa

福氏美国薄荷

Preparation: Unlike most leafy herbs, which begin to break down and lose their potency after about six months,

bee balm can be dried and stored for up to two years. The fresh or dried leaf, stem, and flower material can be made

into an alcohol or glycerin tincture. The dried plant can be infused for use in skin and eyewashes.

准备工作：与大多数叶草植物不同的是，大多数叶草植物在大约六个月后开始分解并失去效力，而蜂香膏

可以干燥并保存长达两年。新鲜或干燥的叶、茎、花材料可制成酒精或甘油酊剂。干燥的植物可用于皮肤

和洗眼液。

Common Uses: Although this plant is widely available and infinitely useful, it is often overlooked by herbalists, and

it has not received the clinical study that it deserves as a healing ally. Despite an overall lack of scientific validation,

bee balm is a safe herb to use in both animals and humans. Many North American Indian tribes used this plant

extensively for healing and in spiritual ceremonies.

常见用途：虽然这种植物用途广泛且用途无限，但它经常被草药医生所忽视，而且它还没有得到作为治疗

盟友的临床研究。尽管总体上缺乏科学验证，蜂香膏是一种可安全用于动物和人类的草药。许多北美印第

安部落广泛使用这种植物进行治疗和精神仪式。

Like most mints, bee balm has a special affinity toward the digestive tract, where it is useful for relieving gastritis

=== PAGE 96 ===
and spastic colon. However, it does not taste good, and most herbivores abandon it in favor of less pungent forage.

Therefore, for use as a digestive aid in animals, the best form of administering bee balm is gelatin capsules (gel

capsules) or a glycerin extract.

与大多数薄荷糖一样，蜂香膏对消化道有特殊的亲和力，可有效缓解胃炎和痉挛性结肠。然而，它的味

道并不好，大多数食草动物放弃它，转而选择不太刺激的饲料。因此，作为动物消化助剂，蜂香膏的最佳

给药形式是明胶胶囊（凝胶胶囊）或甘油提取物。

Bee balm has excellent antibacterial qualities and is especially useful for mouth and gum infections. Two methods

of application work here: a poultice can be made from the dried or fresh herb and applied directly to the affected

area, or a strong infusion or tincture can be used the same way. The poultice or infusion can also be effective as an

antifungal agent. Dogs, cats, and horses and other large animals with fungal infections of the skin are likely to

benefit from a generous topical application of bee balm poultice or salve or from twice-daily skin rinses with cooled

bee balm tea (also see “Calendula”). To make the tea, cover a generous handful of the herb with hot water and allow

it to steep until the water has thoroughly cooled. Don’t worry about straining the herb—just pour the entire mixture

over the affected areas of the animal. In dry weather, or in cases where the animal chooses to lick the rinse off before

it can be effective, you might consider applying the tea as a fomentation (see chapter 1). Bee balm skin rinses also

can bring soothing relief to itchy skin that has resulted from infected fleabites or spontaneous dermatitis (commonly

caused by poison ivy, nettle stings, or contact allergic reactions) and help to relieve pain while reducing scarring

from minor burns. The rinse also imparts a pleasant odor to your pet.

蜂香膏具有出色的抗菌性能，对口腔和牙龈感染特别有效。这里有两种使用方法：可以用干燥或新鲜的

草药制成膏剂，直接涂抹在患处，或者以同样的方式使用浓汤或酊剂。膏剂或输液也可以有效地作为抗真

菌剂。狗、猫、马和其他患有皮肤真菌感染的大型动物可能会受益于大量局部涂抹蜂胶膏或药膏，或者每

天两次用冷蜂胶茶冲洗皮肤（另见“金盏花”） 。泡茶时，将一大把药草倒入热水中，浸泡直至水完全冷

却。不用担心过滤草药——只需将整个混合物倒在动物受影响的区域即可。在干燥的天气里，或者在动物

选择在冲洗液发挥作用之前将其舔掉的情况下，您可以考虑使用茶作为热敷剂（参见第 1 章）。蜂香膏皮

肤冲洗液还可以舒缓因跳蚤感染或自发性皮炎（通常由毒藤、荨麻蜇伤或接触性过敏反应引起）引起的皮

肤瘙痒，并有助于缓解疼痛，同时减少轻微烧伤留下的疤痕。冲洗液还会给您的宠物带来令人愉悦的气

味。

In large animals, bee balm tea can be used as a douche or enema to treat fungal or bacterial infections, or to treat

irritations of the rectum or vagina.

对于大型动物，蜂香茶可用作冲洗剂或灌肠剂，以治疗真菌或细菌感染，或治疗直肠或阴道的刺激。

A dilute infusion can be used as a gentle antiseptic and anti-inflammatory eyewash or ear wash, especially if a

fungal or bacterial infection is suspected. For application in the eye, don’t make the infusion too strong—it should

be only light yellow in color. Rinse the eye and surrounding tissues with the use of an irrigation syringe. To add

stronger antimicrobial activity to the rinse, a pinch of dried Oregon grape root or certified organic goldenseal can be

added to the infusion while it is steeping. Just remember to keep the eye rinse very weak. Ear rinses can be made

much stronger.

稀释输液可用作温和的防腐剂和抗炎洗眼剂或洗耳剂，特别是在怀疑真菌或细菌感染时。涂抹在眼睛上

时，输液不要太浓——它的颜色应该只是浅黄色。使用冲洗注射器冲洗眼睛和周围组织。为了在冲洗液中

添加更强的抗菌活性，可以在浸泡时将一小撮干燥的俄勒冈葡萄根或经过认证的有机金印添加到浸泡液

中。请记住，冲洗眼睛的力度要非常弱。洗耳的效果可以更强一些。

Bee balm works well for low-grade urinary tract infections, and you might find it useful for kidney infections as

well. Unless you can get your animal to drink the tea, a glycerin-based tincture is probably your best bet: administer

12–25 drops per 20 pounds of animal weight two to three times per day.

蜂膏对于低度尿路感染效果很好，您可能会发现它对于肾脏感染也很有用。除非你能让你的动物喝茶，

否则甘油酊剂可能是你最好的选择：每 20 磅体重的动物服用 12-25 滴，每天 2-3 次。

Availability: Wild harvested or organically grown bee balm is available through herb retailers, as is the tincture.

Seeds and plants can be purchased through specialty catalogs and nurseries.

可获得性：野生收获或有机种植的蜂香膏和酊剂均可通过药草零售商购买。种子和植物可以通过专业目录

=== PAGE 97 ===
和苗圃购买。

Propagation and Harvest: Bee balm reseeds readily and transplants well. This is an excellent plant to introduce

into your herb garden. No stratification or other special treatment is required, and the plant is adaptable to almost

any soil. Gather the upper parts of this plant when it is in full bloom (May through September, depending on

location), which is when the parts are the most potent. Pluck individual leaves to minimize impact, or gather the

stem and leaves after the plant has bloomed and gone to seed. If the latter is your choice, clip the stems about 1 inch

above ground level to allow for perennial regrowth and root protection. When gathering while the plant is in bloom,

always be sure to leave plenty of flowers intact for pollination and seed development.

繁殖和收获：蜂香膏很容易重新播种并且移植得很好。这是一种非常适合引入您的药草园的植物。不需要

分层或其他特殊处理，该植物几乎可以适应任何土壤。当这种植物盛开时（五月到九月，取决于地点）收

集该植物的上部部分，这是这些部分最有效的时候。摘下单片叶子以尽量减少影响，或在植物开花并结籽

后收集茎和叶子。如果您选择后者，请将茎剪至距地面约 1 英寸的位置，以实现常年再生和根部保护。在

植物开花时采集时，一定要保留大量完整的花朵，以便授粉和种子发育。

Alternatives and Adjuncts: Combines well with catnip, chamomile, or fennel for digestive upsets and gas. Works

well as an infusion with echinacea, couch grass, raspberry leaf, or goldenrod for urinary or kidney disorders. As a

skin rinse, bee balm serves as a good base infusion to which feverfew flowers can be added for control of fleas.

替代品和辅助品：与猫薄荷、洋甘菊或茴香完美搭配，缓解消化不良和胀气。与紫锥菊、茅草、覆盆子叶

或黄花一起输注，可有效治疗泌尿系统或肾脏疾病。作为皮肤冲洗剂，蜂香膏是一种很好的基础浸液，可

以在其中添加小白菊花来控制跳蚤。

Cautions and Comments: Bee balm is a safe herb, but it often grows in areas that are heavily grazed by livestock,

where the presence of neighboring weeds may have led to the introduction of herbicides. Always check or ask for

evidence of spraying before you harvest.

注意事项和评论：蜂香膏是一种安全的药草，但它经常生长在牲畜大量放牧的地区，附近杂草的存在可能

导致使用除草剂。收获前务必检查或询问喷洒的证据。

=== PAGE 98 ===
BLACK WALNUT

黑胡桃

Juglans nigra

黑核桃

Walnut Family

核桃家族

Appearance: A large tree that may grow to 120 feet, black walnut is characterized by its 6-inch- to 2-foot-long

leaves, which are each divided several times into twelve to twenty-four, lance-shaped and toothed leaflets. Fruits are

presented as green orbs with fleshy outer husks that later dry into very hard dark-brown nuts.

外观：黑胡桃树是一棵可长到 120 英尺的大树，其特征是叶子长 6 英寸到 2 英尺，每片叶子多次分成 12 到

24 个矛状齿状小叶。果实呈绿色球状，带有肉质外壳，随后干燥成非常坚硬的深棕色坚果。

Habitat and Range: Common throughout eastern North America; sporadically distributed throughout the Dakotas,

Nebraska, and Kansas; introduced as an ornamental tree in most other regions of the U.S. and southern Canada

栖息地和范围：常见于北美东部；零星分布于达科他州、内布拉斯加州和堪萨斯州；作为观赏树引入美国

和加拿大南部的大多数其他地区

Cycle and Bloom Season: Blooms in spring; bears fruit beginning in early summer

周期和开花季节：春季开花；初夏开始结果

Parts Used: Primarily the green (unripe) outer fruit hulls

使用部分：主要是绿色（未成熟）的外果壳

Primary Medicinal Activities: expels worms (anthelmintic), tightens skin and mucous membranes (astringent),

may induce vomiting (emetic), laxative

主要药用活性：驱虫（驱虫）、收紧皮肤和粘膜（收敛）、可能引起呕吐（催吐）、泻药

=== PAGE 99 ===
Juglans nigra

黑核桃

Strongest Affinities: Digestive tract, skin

最强亲和力：消化道、皮肤

Preparation: Extract of the green, unripe hulls

制备：绿色未成熟外壳的提取物

Common Uses: Our purpose for including black walnut in this herbal repertory for animals is as much to discourage

its misuse as it is to express its medicinal attributes. Black walnut hull extract is unquestionably one of the best and

safest worming agents offered by the plant world. But like many substances that can actually make a tapeworm hate

life, it can be toxic to the host if not used with proper care, caution, and training. Black walnut offers symptomatic

worm intervention that is generally safer and kinder to the host animal than most other herbal wormers. The

holistically minded pet owner should also take into account that such intervention is actually contrary to the holistic

principles of using herbs in a natural context. Black walnut kills and expels tapeworms, but the underlying reasons

an animal is infested with an overpopulation of these opportunity-seeking parasites in the first place is not

addressed. For more on the principles we are referring to, and our recommended approaches to parasite control,

please read the section “Parasite-Related Problems” in chapter 3. For now, we must tell you that black walnut,

although safe and effective when used in the correct dose and where indicated by specific circumstances, is an herb

best reserved for use by experienced practitioners.

常见用途：我们将黑胡桃纳入动物草药库的目的既是为了防止其滥用，也是为了表达其药用属性。黑胡桃

壳提取物无疑是植物界提供的最好、最安全的驱虫剂之一。但就像许多实际上会使绦虫讨厌生命的物质一

样，如果使用时没有经过适当的护理、谨慎和培训，它可能会对宿主有毒。黑胡桃提供对症状的蠕虫干

预，通常比大多数其他草药驱虫剂对宿主动物更安全、更友善。具有整体意识的宠物主人还应该考虑到这

种干预实际上违背了在自然环境中使用草药的整体原则。黑胡桃可以杀死并驱除绦虫，但动物感染这些寻

=== PAGE 100 ===
求机会的寄生虫数量过多的根本原因并没有得到解决。有关我们所提到的原则以及我们推荐的寄生虫控制

方法的更多信息，请阅读第 3 章中的“寄生虫相关问题”部分。现在，我们必须告诉您，黑胡桃虽然在用于

正确的剂量和根据具体情况指示的草药最好保留给有经验的从业者使用。

Availability: Black walnut is available in the form of an alcohol tincture from several human-oriented herb product

companies. Black walnut is also used in several over-the-counter wormers, most of which we do not recommend by

virtue of holistic principles.

可用性：黑胡桃以酒精酊剂的形式从几家以人为本的草药产品公司提供。黑胡桃木也用于多种非处方驱虫

剂，但出于整体原则，我们不推荐其中大多数。

Propagation and Harvest: Black walnut is a beautiful, full-sized shade tree that can be purchased from many

landscape nurseries and fruit tree catalogs. The green, unripe fruit hulls are harvested while they remain fleshy, in

early to late spring.

繁殖和收获：黑胡桃是一种美丽的全尺寸遮荫树，可以从许多景观苗圃和果树目录中购买。早春至晚春，

绿色、未成熟的果壳在其肉质状态下被收获。

Alternatives and Adjuncts: Garlic and raw pumpkin seeds, added to a good natural diet, are the better choices for

worm control in the majority of circumstances.

替代品和辅助剂：在大多数情况下，添加到良好的天然饮食中的大蒜和生南瓜子是控制蠕虫的更好选择。

Cautions and Comments: Black walnut can be toxic to horses and may cause laminitis, severe gastritis, and

breathing problems in these animals. These problems are believed to be caused not by the hulls themselves but by a

fungus that attacks the green fruit hulls shortly after they fall to the ground. While this suggests that the properly

harvested, fungus-free hulls may be safe for use in horses, we are often left with an unanswerable question of

whether or not the hulls we are using are in fact clean of this fungus. Problems have been recorded in cases where

horses had merely used black walnut shavings as part of their bedding! Concentrations of strong tannins, volatile

oils, and various alkaloid ingredients contained in the bark, leaves, stems, and hulls of black walnut may lead to

vomiting, diarrhea, and gastritis in dogs and cats if ingested in excessive quantities. Remember, anything that can

kill a tapeworm has the potential of being harmful to your animal.

注意事项和评论：黑胡桃可能对马有毒，并可能导致这些动物出现蹄叶炎、严重胃炎和呼吸问题。这些问

题被认为不是由果壳本身引起的，而是由一种真菌引起的，这种真菌在绿色果壳掉落到地面后不久就会攻

击它们。虽然这表明正确收获的无真菌的船体可能可以安全地用于马，但我们经常面临一个无法回答的问

题：我们使用的船体是否实际上没有这种真菌。据记录，马只使用黑胡桃木刨花作为垫料的一部分会出现

问题！黑核桃的树皮、叶子、茎和壳中含有大量的单宁、挥发油和各种生物碱成分，如果摄入过量，可能

会导致狗和猫呕吐、腹泻和胃炎。请记住，任何可以杀死绦虫的物质都可能对您的动物有害。

=== PAGE 101 ===
BORAGE

琉璃苣

Borago officinalis

琉璃苣

Borage Family

琉璃苣家族

Appearance: Borage looks similar to its relative comfrey except borage has a more unruly stature. Plants may grow

to 3 feet tall and quickly sprawl all over a flower bed shortly after rocketing skyward from their emergence as

flattened, well-mannered little rosettes of basal leaves. The unique, 2- to 6-inch-long broadly lance-shaped or

narrowly oval leaves have wrinkled, prickly haired surfaces that bring to mind two-day-old beard stubble. Flowers

are brilliant blue, with five petals and a black-tipped conelike structure at the center of each flower. Flowers are

borne in drooping clusters at the upper branches of the plant.

外观：琉璃苣看起来与其亲戚紫草相似，只是琉璃苣的身材更难以驾驭。植物可能会长到 3 英尺高，并在

从基生叶的扁平、整齐的小莲座丛中飞向天空后不久，迅速蔓延到整个花坛。这种独特的2至6英寸长的宽

矛形或窄椭圆形叶子具有皱纹、多刺的表面，让人想起两天前的胡茬。花朵呈亮蓝色，有五个花瓣，每朵

花的中心有一个黑色尖端的圆锥形结构。花朵以下垂的簇状生长在植物的上部枝条上。

Habitat and Range: Native to many parts of Europe and Asia, borage has been widely introduced as a garden plant

in North America. It grows just about anywhere that has a long enough bloom season to allow for seed development

—basically, from the midlatitudes of Canada southward.

栖息地和范围：琉璃苣原产于欧洲和亚洲的许多地区，已作为园林植物广泛引入北美。它几乎生长在任何

有足够长的花期以允许种子发育的地方——基本上是从加拿大中纬度地区向南。

Cycle and Bloom Season: Borage is a self-seeding annual that blooms from spring to midsummer in most areas.

周期和开花季节：琉璃苣是一种自花一年生植物，在大多数地区从春季到仲夏开花。

Parts Used: Leaves, flowers, and the oil extracted from seeds

使用部分：叶、花和从种子中提取的油

Primary Medicinal Activities: Stimulates milk production (galactagogue), stimulates mucous secretions in the

bronchi (expectorant), astringent, anti-inflammatory, diuretic, mildly calming to the nerves, adrenal stimulant

主要药用活性：刺激产奶（催乳）、刺激支气管粘液分泌（祛痰）、收敛、抗炎、利尿、轻度镇静神经、

肾上腺兴奋剂

Strongest Affinities: Adrenal glands

最强的亲和力：肾上腺

Preparation: The most common uses of this plant require extracting oil from the seed—a process that is impractical

for the do-it-yourself herbalist. The leaves can be dried and used within three months for infusions, in capsules, or in

=== PAGE 102 ===
bulk form powdered and added to your pet’s food. Dried leaves lose their medicinal qualities rather quickly, so use

this herb as early after drying as possible.

准备工作：这种植物最常见的用途是从种子中提取油，这一过程对于自己动手的草药师来说是不切实际

的。叶子可以干燥并在三个月内用于输液、胶囊或散装粉末并添加到宠物的食物中。干燥的叶子很快就会

失去其药用价值，因此干燥后尽早使用这种草药。

Fresh leaves can be scraped of their prickly hairs and made into a poultice or briefly steamed in their entire form

for use as a warm cover dressing for overexerted muscles and minor skin inflammations. Although fresh borage can

be fed to horses and other herbivores, most animals dislike the prickly texture of the foliage.

新鲜的叶子可以刮掉多刺的毛发，制成膏剂，或者将其整个形式短暂蒸熟，用作温暖的覆盖敷料，用于

过度劳累的肌肉和轻微的皮肤炎症。虽然新鲜的琉璃苣可以喂马和其他食草动物，但大多数动物不喜欢叶

子带刺的质地。

Common Uses: Borage is one of many herbs that have been in traditional use for many centuries but nonetheless

has not received the scientific attention it deserves. What we do know about borage is that its seeds contain

impressive amounts of EFAs, especially gamma-linolenic acid (GLA), a compound that has proven to be extremely

useful in the treatment of various liver, cardiovascular, and metabolic disorders. In fact, borage seed oil may contain

twice the GLA offered by the oil of evening primrose (Oenothera biennis) seeds. The use of evening primrose

should be avoided in subjects with blood-clotting disorders. Some scientists claim that the GLA in evening primrose

oil can decrease blood cholesterol and blood pressure and cure rheumatoid arthritis.

常见用途：琉璃苣是许多世纪以来一直被传统使用的草药之一，但仍然没有得到应有的科学关注。我们对

琉璃苣的了解是，它的种子含有大量的必需脂肪酸，尤其是γ-亚麻酸（GLA），这种化合物已被证明在治

疗各种肝脏、心血管和代谢疾病方面非常有用。事实上，琉璃苣籽油的 GLA 含量可能是月见草 (Oenothera

biennis) 籽油的两倍。患有凝血障碍的受试者应避免使用月见草。一些科学家声称，月见草油中的GLA可以

降低血液胆固醇和血压，并治疗类风湿性关节炎。

=== PAGE 103 ===
Borago officinalis

琉璃苣

Recent studies suggest that EFA deficiencies may be strongly associated with many chronic diseases in both

people and animals, including atopic eczema, diabetes, and various inflammatory disorders. In dogs and cats, fatty

acid disorders are characterized in the early phases by a dull coat, itchy skin, and excessive shedding. Gamma-

linolenic acid is important in the production of prostaglandins, compounds that are critical to the healthy

performance of countless metabolic functions—from breakdown of carbohydrates, fats, and other essential nutrients

into usable forms, to maintenance of cellular integrity and proper functioning of smooth-muscle tissues (including

the heart, uterus, and vascular system) throughout the body. In other words, animals cannot survive without a proper

balance of fatty acids, including GLA, in their bodies.

最近的研究表明，全民教育缺乏可能与人和动物的许多慢性疾病密切相关，包括特应性湿疹、糖尿病和

各种炎症性疾病。在狗和猫中，脂肪酸紊乱的早期特征是皮毛暗淡、皮肤发痒和过度脱落。 γ-亚麻酸在前

列腺素的生产中非常重要，前列腺素是对无数代谢功能的健康发挥至关重要的化合物——从碳水化合物、

脂肪和其他必需营养素分解成可用形式，到维持细胞完整性和平滑肌细胞的正常功能。 -全身的肌肉组织

（包括心脏、子宫和血管系统）。换句话说，如果动物体内的脂肪酸（包括 GLA）没有达到适当的平衡，

就无法生存。

The body does not produce GLA, and therefore it must be received through dietary sources. The problem is that

GLA is relatively rare in nature—it occurs in only a few vegetable sources. Borage seed oil is one of the richest

GLA supplements available and can be easily administered by breaking a gel capsule onto your pet’s food each day.

Ask your holistic veterinarian for recommendations on how much of the oil your animal may need.

人体不会产生 GLA，因此必须通过饮食来源获取。问题是 GLA 在自然界中相对罕见——它只存在于少

数植物来源中。琉璃苣籽油是最丰富的 GLA 补充剂之一，每天只需将凝胶胶囊放入宠物的食物中即可轻松

服用。向您的整体兽医询问您的动物可能需要多少油的建议。

Borage leaf has also received attention from herbalists who believe that it may be useful for gently strengthening

adrenal function, particularly in subjects who have recently undergone extended steroid therapies. The adrenal

cortex (the outer tissues of the adrenal glands) is chiefly responsible for the body’s production of corticosteroids, the

hormones responsible for natural reduction of inflammation. When synthetic corticosteroids are introduced into the

body, natural adrenal functions are replaced and the adrenal cortex often begins to shut down its natural production.

As a result, many animals who are ending prednisolone or other steroid therapies have depressed adrenal function.

Fat metabolism and mineral balances may also be affected if this happens. While borage is by no means as powerful

as licorice (Glycyrrhiza spp.) in its adrenal-stimulatory actions, it is believed by many herbalists to gently stimulate

adrenal function that is slightly depressed, especially when used over an extended period. It may be particularly

useful in cases where water retention and high blood pressure are prevalent in an animal’s holistic condition. In

these situations, the stronger herb licorice may be contraindicated because of its potential side effects. While the use

of borage in this capacity lacks scientific validation, it has nonetheless been used safely and effectively for hundreds

of years. The dried leaves may be tinctured (12 drops per 20 pounds of body weight, twice daily) or fed in bulk form

(½ teaspoon sprinkled onto each pound of your animal’s food). Borage also has a folkloric reputation for increasing

milk production in nursing mothers (both human and otherwise)—an action that may be attributable to increased

hormone production by the adrenal gland.

琉璃苣叶也受到草药学家的关注，他们认为它可能有助于温和地增强肾上腺功能，特别是对于最近接受

过长期类固醇治疗的受试者。肾上腺皮质（肾上腺的外层组织）主要负责人体产生皮质类固醇，这种激素

负责自然减少炎症。当合成皮质类固醇被引入体内时，天然肾上腺功能被取代，肾上腺皮质通常开始停止

其自然生成。结果，许多停止泼尼松龙或其他类固醇治疗的动物的肾上腺功能受到抑制。如果发生这种情

况，脂肪代谢和矿物质平衡也可能受到影响。虽然琉璃苣的肾上腺刺激作用远不如甘草（Glycyrrhiza spp.）

那么强大，但许多草药学家认为它可以温和地刺激略微抑制的肾上腺功能，尤其是在长时间使用时。在动

物整体状况中普遍存在水潴留和高血压的情况下，它可能特别有用。在这些情况下，由于其潜在的副作

用，可能会禁忌使用较强的草药甘草。虽然琉璃苣的这种用途缺乏科学验证，但它已经安全有效地使用了

数百年。干燥的叶子可以酊剂（每 20 磅体重 12 滴，每天两次）或散装喂养（½ 茶匙撒在每磅动物食物

上）。琉璃苣在民间也享有盛誉，因为它可以增加哺乳母亲（人类和其他）的产奶量，这种作用可能归因

于肾上腺产生的激素增加。

Topically, borage leaves can be applied as a soothing poultice or compress for minor skin irritations. To sum up

=== PAGE 104 ===
its potential for topical use, consider borage as a limited alternative to comfrey.

局部使用琉璃苣叶作为舒缓膏剂或敷料，缓解轻微的皮肤刺激。总结其局部使用的潜力，可以将琉璃苣

视为紫草的有限替代品。

Availability: Virtually any nursery or seed catalog that sells herbs is likely to have borage.

可用性：几乎任何出售草药的苗圃或种子目录都可能有琉璃苣。

Propagation and Harvest: Borage prefers dry soil and full sun. Aside from these requirements, it is extremely easy

to grow from seed or nursery-raised transplants. If you choose to transplant borage from one part of a garden to

another, do it while the plants are young because the taproot grows straight down and is easily damaged when

removed from the soil.

繁殖和收获：琉璃苣喜欢干燥的土壤和充足的阳光。除了这些要求之外，它还非常容易通过种子或苗圃移

植进行生长。如果您选择将琉璃苣从花园的一个部分移植到另一个部分，请在植物还小的时候进行，因为

主根垂直向下生长，从土壤中取出后很容易损坏。

Borage is a successful self-seeding annual that drops thousands of tiny seeds almost immediately after blooming.

Give the plant plenty of room to sprawl, and consider planting it with other annuals because it may become a

nuisance when dozens of young plants emerge beneath your perennials during the second year.

琉璃苣是一种成功的自花一年生植物，在开花后几乎立即会掉落数千颗微小的种子。给植物足够的空间

来蔓延，并考虑将其与其他一年生植物一起种植，因为当第二年在你的多年生植物下面出现数十种幼苗

时，它可能会变得很麻烦。

Harvest the mature leaves while the plant is in full bloom. Borage leaves are especially susceptible to mold while

they are drying, so never harvest when the leaves are wet and never stack the leaves on top of each other. Dry them

in an area that is away from direct sunlight and has plenty of air circulation. Spread the leaves on clean newspapers

or a nonmetallic screen and turn them once or twice daily to assure quick, even drying. The dried leaves can then be

crumbled and stored in a glass jar for up to three months before they begin to lose their usefulness.

在植物盛开时收获成熟的叶子。琉璃苣叶子在干燥时特别容易发霉，因此切勿在叶子潮湿时收获，也不

要将叶子堆叠在一起。将它们放在远离阳光直射且空气流通的地方晾干。将叶子铺在干净的报纸或非金属

筛子上，每天转动一到两次，以确保快速、均匀的干燥。然后将干燥的叶子弄碎并存放在玻璃罐中长达三

个月，然后才开始失去其用处。

Alternatives and Adjuncts: For similar topical applications, look toward comfrey, which is perhaps a more

effective alternative when indicated. For anti-inflammatory applications and situations involving depressed adrenal

function, such as with Addison’s disease, look toward licorice and astragalus as stronger alternatives.

替代品和辅助剂：对于类似的局部应用，请考虑紫草，当有需要时，这可能是更有效的替代品。对于抗炎

应用和涉及肾上腺功能低下的情况（例如艾迪生氏病），可以将甘草和黄芪视为更强的替代品。

Cautions and Comments: The leaves of this plant contain small amounts of PAs, a potentially toxic group of

compounds that may lead to liver damage. Although the presence of these alkaloids in borage is very low (much

lower than in comfrey) and require ingestion of large and sustained quantities to become harmful in most animals,

borage has nonetheless been banned from human use in Germany.

注意事项和评论：这种植物的叶子含有少量的 PA，这是一组潜在的有毒化合物，可能会导致肝损伤。尽管

琉璃苣中这些生物碱的含量非常低（远低于紫草），并且需要大量持续摄入才会对大多数动物有害，但琉

璃苣在德国仍被禁止人类使用。

=== PAGE 105 ===
BUGLEWEED

黄花草

Lycopus spp.

石蒜属

Mint Family

薄荷家族

Appearance: Bugleweed also goes by the name of water horehound. The deeply and irregularly lobed leaves of

Lycopus americanus differentiate it from other mints (and even other species of Lycopus). Other species of

bugleweed (such as the less common L. uniflorus and L. asper) have leaves that are not deeply lobed but are simple

and coarsely toothed, making them difficult to differentiate from other mints such as skullcap. The easily identified

L. americanus remains by far the most common and conspicuous variety in North America, making it the bugleweed

to remember. Bugleweed, unlike many other mints, does not have a minty odor. Small whitish to pink flowers are

whorled in the leaf axils (the point at which the leaf meets the stem). Stems may be lightly to moderately hairy,

especially toward the base of the plant.

外观： Bugleweed 也被称为水苦海草。美洲番茄的深裂且不规则的叶子将其与其他薄荷（甚至其他种类的

番茄）区分开来。其他种类的牛舌草（例如不太常见的 L. uniflorus 和 L. asper）的叶子不深裂，但叶子简单

且粗齿，使它们很难与其他薄荷（例如黄芩）区分开来。迄今为止，易于识别的美洲乳杆菌仍然是北美最

常见和最显眼的品种，使其成为值得记住的牛草。与许多其他薄荷不同，牛舌草没有薄荷味。白色到粉红

色的小花轮生在叶腋（叶子与茎的交汇处）。茎可能有轻微到中等的毛，特别是朝向植物的基部。

Lycopus americanus

=== PAGE 106 ===
美洲石蒜

Habitat and Range: An inhabitant of stream banks and marshes, bugleweed is typically found in the shade beneath

willows and other shrubs. Several species of Lycopus are widespread throughout most of North America.

栖息地和范围：牛杂草栖息在溪流岸边和沼泽地，通常出现在柳树和其他灌木下的阴凉处。几种石狼属植

物广泛分布于北美大部分地区。

Cycle and Bloom Season: Perennial, blooming from early to midsummer

周期和开花季节：多年生植物，从初夏到仲夏开花

Parts Used: Leaves, stems, flowers

使用部位：叶、茎、花

Primary Medicinal Activities: Slows thyroid function, mild cardiac sedative, calms nerves, diuretic, constricts

subcutaneous blood vessels, astringent, cough suppressant

主要药用活性：减缓甲状腺功能、轻度心脏镇静、镇静神经、利尿、收缩皮下血管、收敛、止咳

Strongest Affinities: Thyroid glands, heart, nervous system

最强的亲和力：甲状腺、心脏、神经系统

Preparation: Although this herb may be useful in dried bulk form or in capsules, it doesn’t taste very good, and it

may be difficult to administer to a dog or cat in an appreciable quantity that doesn’t just pass through the short

digestive tract. An alcohol or glycerin tincture is your best choice here.

制备方法：虽然这种草药以干燥散装形式或胶囊形式可能有用，但它的味道不太好，并且可能很难以可观

的量给狗或猫服用，以免仅通过短消化道。道。酒精或甘油酊剂是您的最佳选择。

Common Uses: Although relatively little research has been done to validate bugleweed’s usefulness in animal

subjects, it may prove useful in dogs and cats with hyperthyroid conditions. While bugleweed cannot physically

correct a diseased thyroid gland and does not work as quickly as synthetic drugs, human studies have confirmed that

bugleweed slows the release of the hormone thyroxine in the thyroid, making it useful in the treatment of mild forms

of hyperthyroidism. Specifically, it should help ease abnormal excitability, relieve acute hyperventilation, slow a

rapid heart rate, and relieve spastic coughing in dogs and cats who suffer from spontaneous hyperthyroidism. It

should be noted, though, that small, frequent doses of the herb extract must be given for a period of at least a few

days before results are seen. Giving 2–6 drops per 20 pounds of the animal’s body weight three times daily is a good

starting point.

常见用途：虽然验证牛草对动物受试者有用性的研究相对较少，但它可能对患有甲状腺功能亢进症的狗和

猫有用。虽然虫草不能从物理上纠正患病的甲状腺，也不像合成药物那样起效快，但人类研究证实，虫草

可以减缓甲状腺中甲状腺素的释放，使其可用于治疗轻度甲状腺功能亢进症。具体来说，它应该有助于缓

解患有自发性甲状腺功能亢进症的狗和猫的异常兴奋性，缓解急性过度换气，减慢快速心率并缓解痉挛性

咳嗽。但值得注意的是，在看到结果之前，必须小而频繁地服用草药提取物至少几天。每天 3 次，每 20 磅

动物体重滴 2-6 滴是一个很好的起点。

Bugleweed is also useful in many heart and vascular system disorders. It is believed to work in the cardiovascular

system in a way that is similar to the drug digitalis—by strengthening the heartbeat while slowing a rapid pulse. But

unlike digitalis and other such drugs that are used primarily in humans, bugleweed is virtually free of dangerous side

effects.

牛舌草还可用于治疗许多心脏和血管系统疾病。据信，它在心血管系统中的作用方式与洋地黄药物类

似，即加强心跳，同时减慢快速脉搏。但与主要用于人类的洋地黄和其他此类药物不同，牛杂草几乎没有

=== PAGE 107 ===
危险的副作用。

Adding to bugleweed’s usefulness in cardiovascular disorders is its ability to help expel water from the body. This

makes it useful in animals with lung fluid associated with weak, rapid pulse and unproductive coughing. However,

some extra caution is advised here: bugleweed is believed to suppress the cough response even if such suppression is

not conducive to the healing process. In respiratory disorders such as Bordetella or pneumonia, cough suppression

may be contradictory to the holistic principles of using herbs in the first place and may even be dangerous to the

animal. Remember, the primary goal of herbal therapies is to assist the body in its capacity to heal itself, not to

interfere with its efforts to do so. If the animal is successful at expelling mucus as a result of persistent coughing, the

body is doing its job, and the use of bugleweed is probably contraindicated. See a holistic vet.

牛花草在心血管疾病中的作用还在于它能够帮助排出体内的水分。这使得它对于肺积液、脉搏微弱、快

速和咳嗽无效的动物很有用。然而，这里建议额外小心：牛角草被认为可以抑制咳嗽反应，即使这种抑制

不利于愈合过程。在博德特氏菌或肺炎等呼吸系统疾病中，抑制咳嗽可能与使用草药的整体原则相矛盾，

甚至可能对动物造成危险。请记住，草药疗法的主要目标是帮助身体发挥自我修复的能力，而不是干扰其

这样做的努力。如果动物因持续咳嗽而成功排出粘液，则表明身体正在发挥其作用，并且可能禁止使用牛

草。看一位全面的兽医。

The nerve-calming and vasoconstrictor actions of bugleweed make it useful for pain relief in situations that

involve irritability and tension. This is true especially when circumstances are compounded by injured nerves such

as in posttraumatic circumstances where an animal is in pain from a crushing injury, is jumpy and cannot get

comfortable, and just paces, whines, and pants. Bugleweed does not contain salicylates, so it can be used for

posttraumatic pain relief in cats. It is especially useful in cats with preexisting functional thyroid adenoma or other

forms of disease that may contribute to an overactive thyroid. In humans, bugleweed is often used by herbalists in

the treatment of migraine headaches.

牛舌草具有镇静神经和收缩血管的作用，有助于缓解烦躁和紧张的情况下的疼痛。尤其是当环境因神经

受伤而变得更加复杂时，例如在创伤后的情况下，动物因挤压伤而感到疼痛，神经兮兮，无法舒服，只有

踱步、哀鸣和喘气。牛舌草不含水杨酸盐，因此可用于缓解猫的创伤后疼痛。它对于预先存在功能性甲状

腺腺瘤或可能导致甲状腺过度活跃的其他形式疾病的猫特别有用。在人类中，草药师经常使用牛草来治疗

偏头痛。

Availability: Seeds are available from specialty seed catalogs. Bugleweed herb and herb tinctures are available

through natural products retailers.

可用性：种子可从专业种子目录中获得。牛舌草药草和药草酊剂可通过天然产品零售商购买。

Propagation and Harvest: This herb requires consistently moist soil and at least 50 percent shade cover. For the

best results, sow the seeds indoors in February or March then transplant them to an area that gets plenty of shade and

water throughout the summer. Plants are ready to harvest when the flowers are just beginning to bloom. The freshly

cut herb is the best choice for making your own medicine, but if this isn’t possible, cut the stems at about 3 inches

above ground level during a period when the foliage is completely dry. Hang them in small bunches of four to six

stems apiece in an airy location away from direct sunlight. When properly stored, the dried herb retains its medicinal

potency for at least six months.

繁殖和收获：这种草本植物需要持续湿润的土壤和至少 50% 的遮荫覆盖。为了获得最佳效果，请在二月或

三月在室内播种种子，然后将它们移植到整个夏季有充足阴凉和水的地方。当花朵刚刚开始绽放时，植物

就可以收获了。新鲜切下的药草是自己制作药物的最佳选择，但如果不可能，请在叶子完全干燥时将茎切

到距地面约 3 英寸的位置。将它们分成四到六茎的小束，悬挂在通风良好、避免阳光直射的地方。如果储

存得当，干燥的药草可以保留其药效至少六个月。

Alternatives and Adjuncts: For use in hyperthyroidism, bugleweed combines especially well with lemon balm

(Melissa officinalis). For use in heart and vascular disorders associated with a rapid, erratic pulse, ginkgo and

mother-wort serve as substitutes in many cases, and skullcap, hawthorn, garlic, and astragalus should all be

investigated as adjuncts. For nervousness associated with abnormal irritability, pain, or rapid heartbeat, bugleweed

=== PAGE 108 ===
will combine nicely with valerian, skullcap, hop, or chamomile. When water retention is an associated factor in any

of the above conditions, try adding dandelion leaf to the formula as a diuretic aid.

替代品和辅助剂：对于治疗甲状腺功能亢进症，牛舌草与柠檬香脂（Melissa officinalis）的结合效果特别

好。对于与快速、不稳定的脉搏相关的心脏和血管疾病，银杏和益母草在许多情况下可以作为替代品，黄

芩、山楂、大蒜和黄芪都应该作为辅助药物进行研究。对于与异常烦躁、疼痛或心跳加快相关的紧张情

绪，牛舌草可以与缬草、黄芩、啤酒花或洋甘菊完美搭配。当水潴留是上述任何一种情况的相关因素时，

请尝试在配方奶粉中添加蒲公英叶作为利尿剂。

Cautions and Comments: Like all members of the mint family, bugleweed is a safe herb with no known toxicity

when used sensibly. However, since bugleweed constricts blood vessels and may have hormonal properties,

common sense dictates that it should not be used in pregnant or nursing animals. For obvious reasons, bugleweed

should not be used in animals with depressed thyroid function. Another point to consider before using bugleweed in

your pet is that very little research has been done into the attributes and side effects of bugleweed in some animals.

Although it can be safely used in most dogs, cats, and horses, its effects in birds, rodents, and other animals are

largely unknown. If in doubt, contact a professional who is familiar with the specific applications of this herb.

注意事项和评论：与薄荷家族的所有成员一样，牛舌草是一种安全的草药，在合理使用时没有已知的毒

性。然而，由于牛杂草会收缩血管并且可能具有激素特性，因此常识表明它不应该用于怀孕或哺乳的动

物。出于显而易见的原因，牛舌草不应用于甲状腺功能低下的动物。在您的宠物中使用牛草之前要考虑的

另一点是，对于某些动物中牛草的属性和副作用进行的研究很少。尽管它可以安全地用于大多数狗、猫和

马，但它对鸟类、啮齿动物和其他动物的影响很大程度上未知。如有疑问，请联系熟悉这种草药具体应用

的专业人士。

=== PAGE 109 ===
BURDOCK

牛蒡

Arctium lappa or A. minor

牛蒡子或小牛蒡子

Sunflower Family

向日葵家族

Appearance: In its first year of growth, burdock appears as a rosette of large heart-shaped leaves up to 12 inches

long. During the second year, the plant continues skyward, often reaching 6–8 feet, while branching out to produce

multitudes of thistlelike, light lavender to purple-flowered seed-bearing burrs at the upper reaches of the plant. Each

burr contains several small black seeds and is covered by reverse-hooked spines that enable them to stick to

anything that brushes by. The entire plant is covered with tiny hairs that give the leaves and the stems a tacky texture

similar to that of ultrafine grit sandpaper. The lightbrown taproot may weigh 2–3 pounds and extend 2 or more feet

below a second-year plant. This sturdy taproot, combined with the annoying and extremely efficient reproductive

qualities of the burrs, has earned burdock a hated reputation as a farm and garden enemy.

外观：在生长的第一年，牛蒡呈莲座状，由长达 12 英寸的大心形叶子组成。第二年，植物继续向天空生

长，通常达到 6-8 英尺，同时分支，在植物的上游产生大量蓟状、淡紫色到紫色花的带有种子的毛刺。每

个毛刺都含有一些黑色的小种子，并覆盖着反钩的刺，使它们能够粘在任何擦过的东西上。整个植物都覆

盖着细小的毛发，使叶子和茎具有类似于超细砂纸的粘性质地。浅棕色主根重 2-3 磅，在第二年植物下方

延伸 2 英尺或更多英尺。这种坚固的主根，加上毛刺令人讨厌且极其高效的繁殖特性，使牛蒡赢得了农场

和花园敌人的恶名。

Habitat and Range: Burdock is a Eurasian import that has made its home throughout most of North America. It

prefers rich, deep, consistently moist soil and is frequently found in profuse abundance along the edges of cultivated

fields and at roadsides (particularly where human or livestock traffic can cooperate with the hitchhiking burrs).

栖息地和分布范围：牛蒡是一种欧亚进口植物，分布在北美大部分地区。它喜欢肥沃、深厚、持续湿润的

土壤，经常在耕地边缘和路边大量发现（特别是在人类或牲畜交通可以与搭便车的毛刺配合的地方）。

Cycle and Bloom Season: A biennial that blooms in mid- to late summer

周期和开花季节：两年一度，在夏中至夏末开花

Parts Used: Root

使用部位：根

Primary Medicinal Activities: Blood cleansing, liver and gallbladder stimulant, diuretic, nutritive

主要药用活性：净化血液、肝胆兴奋剂、利尿剂、营养剂

Strongest Affinities: Liver, skin

亲和力最强：肝脏、皮肤

=== PAGE 110 ===
Preparation: Although all preparations of this herb are useful, the active constituents of this plant must be given in

relatively large doses to be of therapeutic advantage. Since most animals don’t like eating it, a strong tincture of

fresh or dried root is the most effective preparation. The medicinal ingredients of burdock root are extracted well in

a glycerin menstruum (solvent), and the flavor of the resulting liquid, or glycerite, is sweet and agreeable to most

animals. The fresh roots have a high water content, which is imparted to the finished tincture. A tincture that

contains more than 40 percent water spoils quickly. Therefore, it is best to use 100 percent undiluted vegetable

glycerin in your mixture. Fresh or dried burdock root can be decocted, as well, and poured over your animal’s food.

Be liberal with the quantity—burdock is a healthy food.

制剂：虽然这种草药的所有制剂都是有用的，但这种植物的活性成分必须以相对较大的剂量施用才能具有

治疗优势。由于大多数动物不喜欢吃它，因此新鲜或干燥的根的浓烈酊剂是最有效的制剂。牛蒡根的药用

成分在甘油溶剂（溶剂）中被很好地提取出来，所得液体或甘油的味道是甜的并且适合大多数动物。新鲜

的根具有很高的含水量，这些水分被赋予到成品酊剂中。含水量超过 40% 的酊剂很快就会变质。因此，最

好在混合物中使用 100% 未稀释的植物甘油。新鲜或干的牛蒡根也可以煎汤，然后倒在动物的食物上。数

量要宽松——牛蒡是一种健康食品。

Common Uses: We cannot emphasize the value of this herb enough in the long-term care of companion animals.

Burdock has an ancient and respected reputation as a nutritive liver tonic that helps to clean and build the blood. Just

2.5 ounces of fresh burdock root contains up to 61 milligrams of calcium, 77 milligrams of phosphorus, 1.4

milligrams of iron, 0.03 milligrams of thiamine, and 0.05 milligrams of riboflavin.

常见用途：这种草药在长期护理伴侣动物方面的价值再怎么强调也不为过。牛蒡作为一种营养肝脏补品而

享有古老而受人尊敬的声誉，有助于清洁和增强血液。仅2.5盎司的新鲜牛蒡根就含有高达61毫克的钙、77

毫克的磷、1.4毫克的铁、0.03毫克的硫胺素和0.05毫克的核黄素。

Burdock root is a specific treatment for chronic or acute psoriasis or eczema; it has a strong affinity toward the

treatment of flaky, oily, or inflammatory skin disorders that can be traced back to liver deficiencies or a general

overload of toxic substances in the body (usually the result of a poor diet). It is also useful in the holistic treatment

of arthritis, rheumatoid disorders, inflammatory kidney and bladder diseases, and virtually any other type of

metabolic disorder that may be the result of poor waste elimination. Adding to all of this is a diuretic action that

helps in the elimination of waste materials from the body. In simple terms, burdock helps clean the body from the

inside out.

牛蒡根是治疗慢性或急性牛皮癣或湿疹的特效药；它对治疗片状、油性或炎症性皮肤病有很强的亲和

力，这些皮肤病可以追溯到肝脏缺陷或体内有毒物质普遍超载（通常是不良饮食的结果）。它还可用于关

节炎、类风湿性疾病、炎症性肾病和膀胱疾病以及几乎任何其他类型的代谢紊乱（可能是由于废物排除不

良造成的）的整体治疗。除此之外，利尿作用有助于消除体内废物。简单来说，牛蒡有助于从内到外清洁

身体。

Burdock contains chemical elements that have been shown to be effective in preventing disease that may result

from environmental toxicity. Specifically, burdock helps to remove mutagenic substances such as pesticides and

airborne pollutants from the bloodstream before they cause harm to the body. Animal studies have indicated that

burdock extract has free-radical scavenging qualities in the liver, thus weeding out carcinogenic elements before

cellular damage can occur.

牛蒡含有的化学元素已被证明可以有效预防环境毒性引起的疾病。具体来说，牛蒡有助于在农药和空气

污染物等致突变物质对身体造成伤害之前从血液中清除它们。动物研究表明，牛蒡提取物具有清除肝脏自

由基的能力，从而在细胞损伤发生之前清除致癌元素。

Virtually every living creature is continually subjected to the harmful effects of human society—our companion

animals are no exception. The liver is the organ that begins the cleansing process. The liver not only filters the blood

but contributes bile and numerous enzymes to the digestive tract that are essential to the breakdown and absorption

of essential nutrients. By assisting liver function and prompting the efficient removal of systemic waste, absorbed or

ingested toxins, and allergens from the body, imbalances such as arthritis, kidney stones, bladder infections, and

eczema can be avoided. By helping the liver do its job, we are also relieving pressure from secondary immune

functions that need to remain unencumbered in their fight against viruses and other microbes that may have

bypassed the liver. Furthermore, if the liver can work at optimum efficiency, less solid or toxic waste will reach the

=== PAGE 111 ===
kidneys—a set of delicate organs that are vulnerable to the liver’s deficiencies.

事实上，每一种生物都不断受到人类社会的有害影响——我们的伴侣动物也不例外。肝脏是开始净化过

程的器官。肝脏不仅过滤血液，还向消化道提供胆汁和大量酶，这些酶对于必需营养素的分解和吸收至关

重要。通过协助肝功能并促进有效清除体内的全身废物、吸收或摄入的毒素和过敏原，可以避免关节炎、

肾结石、膀胱感染和湿疹等失衡。通过帮助肝脏完成其工作，我们还可以缓解次级免疫功能的压力，这些

功能需要在对抗可能绕过肝脏的病毒和其他微生物时保持不受阻碍。此外，如果肝脏能够以最佳效率工

作，到达肾脏的固体或有毒废物就会减少——肾脏是一组脆弱的器官，很容易受到肝脏缺陷的影响。

Burdock is an excellent long-term liver tonic, and it is gentle enough to use in cases of preexisting liver or kidney

disease. It is an excellent choice for animals suffering as a result of a poor diet. Just remember, diet is where the road

to a long, healthy life begins. Burdock will not replace a good natural diet, but it can help tremendously in allowing

the body to utilize the good nutrition it receives.

牛蒡是一种极好的长期肝脏补品，而且性质温和，适合用于已有肝脏或肾脏疾病的情况。对于因饮食不

良而遭受痛苦的动物来说，这是一个绝佳的选择。请记住，饮食是健康长寿之路的开始。牛蒡不会取代良

好的天然饮食，但它可以极大地帮助身体利用它所获得的良好营养。

Availability: Fresh organically grown burdock root is available at many health food stores. Dried burdock root and

root tincture are available through most herb retailers. Seeds are available through specialty seed catalogs.

供应情况：新鲜的有机种植的牛蒡根在许多保健食品商店都有售。大多数草药零售商都可以买到干牛蒡根

和根酊剂。种子可通过专业种子目录获得。

Propagation and Harvest: Provided you have deep, rich soil for taproots that can penetrate the earth 3 feet,

burdock is easy to grow. Burdock likes moist (but not wet) soil, and it prefers to have at least a couple of hours of

shade each day. Sow the seeds as you would carrots, in early spring. The roots are ready after the leaves die back in

the fall of the first year. Second-year roots can be used if dug in the spring, but remember that biennials die after

their second year of growth and the roots lose potency as they approach their demise.

繁殖和收获：如果你有深厚、肥沃的土壤，主根可以深入土壤3英尺，牛蒡很容易生长。牛蒡喜欢潮湿

（但不潮湿）的土壤，并且喜欢每天至少有几个小时的阴凉处。在早春，像播种胡萝卜一样播种种子。第

一年秋天叶子枯死后，根就准备好了。如果在春季挖出第二年的根，则可以使用，但请记住，二年生植物

在生长的第二年后就会死亡，并且当它们接近死亡时，根会失去效力。

=== PAGE 112 ===
Arctium minor

小牛蒡子

Burdock roots can be refrigerated for several weeks after harvest, or they can be chopped and dried, made into

tincture, or decocted for immediate use.

牛蒡根收获后可冷藏数周，也可切碎干燥，制成酊剂或煎汤立即使用。

Alternatives and Adjuncts: Dandelion root serves well as an alternative to burdock. For treatment of flaky or itchy

skin problems, burdock can be supplemented with licorice, red clover, dandelion, or yellow dock. As a liver aid in

conditions associated with chronic constipation, burdock can be supplemented with dandelion, chicory, turkey

rhubarb, yellow dock, or Oregon grape. In cases of preexisting liver damage resulting from chemical toxicity or

vaccinosis, use the burdock with milk thistle or licorice. As an adjunct to an immune-support formula, combine

burdock with echinacea or astragalus.

替代品和辅助品：蒲公英根可以很好地替代牛蒡。为了治疗片状或瘙痒的皮肤问题，牛蒡可以补充甘草、

红三叶草、蒲公英或黄坞。作为慢性便秘相关疾病的肝脏辅助剂，牛蒡可以补充蒲公英、菊苣、火鸡大

黄、黄坞或俄勒冈葡萄。如果因化学毒性或疫苗接种而导致肝损伤，请将牛蒡与水飞蓟或甘草一起使用。

作为免疫支持配方的辅助剂，将牛蒡与紫锥菊或黄芪混合。

Cautions and Comments: This is one of the safest herbs available to humans and animals. In essence, burdock is a

nutraceutical, a food that also offers medicinal attributes. No toxicity has been noted with this herb.

注意事项和评论：这是对人类和动物最安全的草药之一。从本质上讲，牛蒡是一种营养保健品，也是一种

具有药用价值的食物。尚未发现这种草药有任何毒性。

=== PAGE 113 ===
CALENDULA

金盏花

Calendula officinalis

金盏花

Sunflower Family

向日葵家族

Appearance: This herb is also known as pot marigold. The bright yellow, orange, or red-orange flowers of

calendula are a familiar sight in gardens and landscape designs found everywhere. Calendula officinalis is a small

plant that seldom exceeds 18 inches in height. The lance-shaped or oblong alternate leaves have coarse surfaces and

are borne on sturdy branching stems. Calendula should not be confused with other marigolds, namely French

marigolds, and other members of the Tagetes genus of the sunflower family, which have a pungent odor and much

different leaf characteristics.

外观：这种草药也被称为万寿菊。金盏花的亮黄色、橙色或红橙色花朵是花园和景观设计中常见的景象。

金盏花是一种小型植物，高度很少超过 18 英寸。矛状或椭圆形的互生叶表面粗糙，长在坚固的分枝茎上。

金盏花不应与其他万寿菊（即法国万寿菊）和向日葵科万寿菊属的其他成员混淆，后者具有刺激性气味和

截然不同的叶子特征。

Habitat and Range: Originally a native of Europe and Africa, calendula is a cultivated plant throughout most of the

world.

栖息地和分布范围：金盏花原产于欧洲和非洲，是世界大部分地区的栽培植物。

Cycle and Bloom Season: The word calendula is derived from calends (the first day of the Roman month) because

the plant was thought to bloom on the new moon of each month. While calendula really doesn’t keep such an

accurate calendar, it does remain in a constant and generous state of bloom throughout most of its annual life span.

周期和开花季节：金盏花一词源自calenda（罗马月的第一天），因为人们认为这种植物在每个月的新月时

开花。虽然金盏花确实没有如此准确的日历，但它在其生命周期的大部分时间里确实保持着持续而慷慨的

绽放状态。

Parts Used: Flowers

使用部分：花

Primary Medicinal Activities: Anti-inflammatory, increases lymph circulation, heals wounds, astringent,

antibacterial, antifungal, anti-tumor, liver stimulant, promotes menstruation (emmenagogue)

主要药用活性：抗炎、增加淋巴循环、愈合伤口、收敛、抗菌、抗真菌、抗肿瘤、保肝、促进月经（调

经）

Strongest Affinities: Skin and mucous membranes

最强的亲和力：皮肤和粘膜

=== PAGE 114 ===
Preparation: Water or oil infusion, tincture, poultice, salve, ointment

制剂：水或油输液、酊剂、膏剂、药膏、软膏

Common Uses: Calendula is among the first herbs to consider in minor first aid situations. A broad array of

medicinal compounds in the flowers of the plant (various essential oils, flavonoids, saponins, triterpene alcohols,

carotenes, and others) combine to help speed cell reproduction and inhibit bacteria and fungi at the site of injury.

常见用途：金盏花是在轻微急救情况下首先考虑的草药之一。植物花中的多种药用化合物（各种精油、类

黄酮、皂苷、三萜醇、胡萝卜素等）结合在一起，有助于加速细胞繁殖并抑制受伤部位的细菌和真菌。

For minor cuts, insect bites, abrasions, and postsurgical incisions, a calendula salve applied externally brings

quick, soothing relief to pain and swelling, while lending wound-healing, antimicrobial properties to the body’s

healing effort. Infusions of the flowers are effective as a soothing and healing skin wash for various forms of

inflammatory dermatitis, such as those caused by fleabites, poison ivy, eczema, and sunburn. The infection-fighting,

skin-healing nature of this plant makes it useful for treating burns as well. A cooled water infusion may be used as

an eyewash for conjunctivitis, where the mild but predictable astringency of the plant combines with its bacteria-

fighting properties to reduce irritation and infection. To make an eyewash or skin rinse, refer to chapter 1.

对于轻微割伤、昆虫叮咬、擦伤和术后切口，外用金盏花药膏可以快速、舒缓地缓解疼痛和肿胀，同时

为身体的愈合提供伤口愈合和抗菌特性。花浸液可有效舒缓和治愈各种形式的炎症性皮炎，例如由跳蚤、

毒藤、湿疹和晒伤引起的皮炎。这种植物具有抗感染、治愈皮肤的特性，因此也可用于治疗烧伤。冷却水

输液可用作结膜炎的洗眼剂，植物温和但可预测的涩味与其抗菌特性相结合，可减少刺激和感染。要进行

洗眼或皮肤冲洗，请参阅第 1 章。

Internally, an infusion or tincture of the flower may be used in treating inflammation or ulceration of the digestive

or urinary tracts, where it serves in the drainage of lymph-engorged tissues and reduces inflammation. It may also

prove beneficial in the treatment of candidiasis, a fungal infection of the mucous membranes in the mouths and

digestive tracts of birds, cats, horses, and sometimes dogs. The antifungal qualities of this herb also make it a

possible option for topical treatment of chromomycosis, a fungal infection of the skin in cows, horses, dogs, cats,

and amphibians, or for the treatment of entomophthoromycosis, a fungal infection of the nostrils, mouth, or lips of

horses. While virtually no scientific data exist to validate the effectiveness of calendula against these three forms of

disease, calendula’s safety and reputed effectiveness as a broad-spectrum antifungal agent make it an option worth

trying.

在内部，花的浸液或酊剂可用于治疗消化道或泌尿道的炎症或溃疡，它有助于淋巴充血组织的引流并减

少炎症。它也可能有助于治疗念珠菌病，这是一种鸟类、猫、马，有时还有狗的口腔和消化道粘膜的真菌

感染。这种草药的抗真菌特性也使其成为局部治疗色霉菌病（牛、马、狗、猫和两栖动物皮肤真菌感染）

或治疗昆虫霉菌病（鼻孔真菌感染）的可能选择。嘴，或马的嘴唇。虽然几乎没有科学数据可以验证金盏

花对这三种疾病的有效性，但金盏花作为广谱抗真菌剂的安全性和公认的有效性使其成为值得尝试的选

择。

Preparations containing calendula have been shown to be effective in the treatment of chronic colitis. And animal

studies have shown that the saponin constituents in calendula may possess antitumor activities.

含有金盏花的制剂已被证明可有效治疗慢性结肠炎。动物研究表明，金盏花中的皂苷成分可能具有抗肿

瘤活性。

Availability: Over thirty varieties of calendula are available at nurseries everywhere.

供应情况：各地的苗圃里都有三十多种金盏花。

Propagation and Harvest: Sow seeds in early spring or transplant the starts after the danger of frost is past.

Calendula likes moderately rich soil and full sun. It is not picky about pH—as long as the soil is not excessively

alkaline or acidic, calendula will do just fine. Once established, plants self-sow from their prolific seed production.

Seedlings that emerge each spring should be thinned to about 6 inches apart, so you can have a continuous,

relatively carefree supply of calendula. Harvest the flowers whenever they are in full bloom. They can then be made

=== PAGE 115 ===
into an herbal preparation while they are fresh, or you can dry them indoors for use in the near future.

繁殖和收获：在早春播种或在霜冻危险过去后移植种子。金盏花喜欢适度肥沃的土壤和充足的阳光。金盏

花对pH值并不挑剔，只要土壤不过碱性或酸性，金盏花就可以生长。一旦建立，植物就会通过其多产的种

子自我播种。每年春天长出的幼苗应稀疏至间距约 6 英寸，这样您就可以连续、相对无忧无虑地供应金盏

花。每当花朵盛开时就将其采收。然后可以在新鲜时将它们制成草药制剂，或者您可以将它们在室内干燥

以供不久的将来使用。

Calendula officinalis

金盏花

Alternatives and Adjuncts: For use in first aid salves, calendula combines especially well with comfrey and Saint-

John’s-wort. To increase its effectiveness in antifungal uses (internally or externally), try adding bee balm, Oregon

grape, or licorice. For urinary or digestive tract inflammations, calendula can be coupled with corn silk,

marshmallow, or plantain.

替代品和辅助剂：用于急救药膏时，金盏花与紫草和圣约翰草的结合效果特别好。为了提高其抗真菌功效

（内用或外用），请尝试添加蜂膏、俄勒冈葡萄或甘草。对于泌尿道或消化道炎症，金盏花可以与玉米

须、棉花糖或车前草搭配使用。

Cautions and Comments: Although calendula is without question one of the safest herbs, it does have a reputation

for stimulating menstruation. In some studies it has been shown to possess abortifacient (abortion-causing) activities

in rodents, so it should be avoided during early pregnancy. Calendula may contain a very small measure of salicylic

acid, a constituent that is potentially toxic to cats. Although this compound is likely confined to the leaves and stems

of the plant and does not occur in quantities that are likely to be of immediate danger to cats, its presence should be

taken into account prior to long-term internal use.

注意事项和评论：虽然金盏花毫无疑问是最安全的草药之一，但它确实以刺激月经而闻名。一些研究表明

它对啮齿动物具有堕胎（导致流产）活性，因此在怀孕早期应避免使用。金盏花可能含有极少量的水杨

=== PAGE 116 ===
酸，这种成分对猫可能有毒。尽管这种化合物可能仅限于植物的叶子和茎中，并且其含量不会对猫造成直

接危险，但在长期内部使用之前应考虑到其存在。

=== PAGE 117 ===
CATNIP

Nepeta cataria

荆芥

Mint Family

薄荷家族

Appearance: Wild catnip is always a wonderful discovery. Its pungent tangymint aroma wafts to the nose with the

slightest disturbance of the plant. And the flavor and soothing effects of the tea are likely to please even the most

discriminating palate. Characteristically a mint, catnip has square stems and opposite leaves. Leaves are petiolate

(stemmed), coarsely but often bluntly toothed, and nearly heart shaped to broadly lance shaped. Once one has

become familiar with this plant, the aroma is a sure giveaway. The entire plant is distinctively fuzzy with an almost

flannel-like texture. Unlike most other mints, which bloom in whorls at the upper leaf axils or in terminate clusters

or spires, catnip blooms at both the upper leaf axils and in spikelike terminate clusters.

外观：野生猫薄荷总是一个奇妙的发现。只要对植物进行轻微的干扰，其刺鼻的丹香薄荷香气就会飘入鼻

子。即使是最挑剔的味觉，茶的风味和舒缓效果也可能会令您满意。猫薄荷是薄荷的典型特征，具有方形

茎和对生叶子。叶子有叶柄（有茎），粗糙但通常有钝齿，近心形至宽矛形。一旦人们熟悉了这种植物，

它的香气就很明显了。整个植物有明显的绒毛，具有几乎法兰绒般的纹理。与大多数其他薄荷在上部叶腋

以轮生或以末端簇或尖顶开花不同，猫薄荷在上部叶腋和穗状末端簇中开花。

Habitat and Range: Catnip is a Eurasian import that is now widespread in North America. It likes full sun and rich,

moist soil, and is most frequently found in disturbed areas such as along irrigation channels and at the edges of

cultivated fields. Unfortunately, this characteristic often makes it difficult for the herbalist or wild food forager to

find uncontaminated plants. Fortunately, catnip can be found at many nurseries.

栖息地和分布范围：猫薄荷是欧亚大陆进口的植物，目前广泛分布于北美。它喜欢充足的阳光和肥沃湿润

的土壤，最常见于受干扰的地区，例如灌溉渠道沿线和耕地边缘。不幸的是，这种特性常常使草药师或野

生食物采集者很难找到未受污染的植物。幸运的是，许多托儿所都可以找到猫薄荷。

Cycle and Bloom Season: A perennial that blooms from late spring to midsummer

周期和开花季节：从春末到仲夏开花的多年生植物

=== PAGE 118 ===
Nepeta cataria

荆芥

Parts Used: Leaves, stems, and flowers are collected before seeds begin to develop.

使用的部分：在种子开始发育之前收集叶、茎和花。

Primary Medicinal Activities: Expels intestinal gas, sedative, antispasmodic, helps alleviate vomiting (antiemetic),

feline-euphoric, diuretic

主要药用活性：排出肠道气体、镇静、解痉、帮助缓解呕吐（止吐）、猫欣快、利尿

Strongest Affinities: Digestive and nervous systems

最强的亲和力：消化系统和神经系统

Preparation: Fresh or dried chopped herb, water infusion, tincture, or, of course, stuffed in a catnip toy

准备工作：新鲜或干切碎的药草、水浸剂、酊剂，当然也可以塞进猫薄荷玩具中

Common Uses: Catnip is a gentle gas reliever and antispasmodic for easing flatulence and stomach upsets. It also

acts as a mild sedative to help calm the nerves and promote restful sleep in most animals. Due to an ingredient called

nepetalactone, cats become intoxicated when they sniff this plant. The effect of the herb when ingested is relaxing in

a different way, calming to the stomach and relaxing to the nerves but without feline-erotic visions of candy-coated

mice. Interestingly, about 20 percent of our feline friends do not experience a euphoric response to catnip. This is an

excellent herb to consider for a high-strung animal with a nervous stomach, especially if episodes of vomiting are

precipitated by stressful events such as running the vacuum cleaner, having the neighbors and their screaming child

over for dinner, or—worse yet—bringing another kitten into the “royal palace.” You can administer 12–20 drops

=== PAGE 119 ===
(0.25 to 0.5 milliliter) of a glycerin-based catnip tincture for every 20 pounds of an animal’s body weight, ten to

twenty minutes prior to being subjected to stressful circumstances. For travel or other prolonged periods of stress,

the tincture can be added to the animal’s drinking water—12 drops per 8 ounces of water is a good starting dose. If

the animal does not respond, try adding 6 drops at a time, until the desired calming effect is evident. Dropping a few

fresh leaves into the animal’s drinking water may work as well. You can also try feeding dried catnip to your pet by

putting it onto her food at a dose of ⅛ to ½ teaspoon per pound of food fed. Just remember that this might make kitty

roll around in her dinner!

常见用途：猫薄荷是一种温和的气体缓解剂和解痉剂，可缓解胀气和胃部不适。它还可以作为温和的镇静

剂，帮助镇静神经并促进大多数动物的安宁睡眠。由于含有一种叫做荆芥内酯的成分，猫在闻这种植物时

会中毒。摄入这种草药的效果是以不同的方式放松，使胃平静，放松神经，但不会出现糖果老鼠的猫科动

物色情幻觉。有趣的是，大约 20% 的猫科动物朋友并没有对猫薄荷产生欣快反应。对于胃部紧张的高度紧

张的动物来说，这是一种极好的草药，特别是如果呕吐是由压力事件引起的，例如运行吸尘器、让邻居和

他们尖叫的孩子过来吃晚饭，或者更糟糕的情况——把另一只小猫带进“皇宫”。您可以在遭受压力环境前

10 到 20 分钟，为每 20 磅体重的动物注射 12–20 滴（0.25 到 0.5 毫升）甘油猫薄荷酊剂。对于旅行或其他

长时间的压力，可以将酊剂添加到动物的饮用水中——每 8 盎司水 12 滴是一个很好的起始剂量。如果动物

没有反应，请尝试一次添加 6 滴，直到达到所需的镇静效果。将几片新鲜叶子放入动物的饮用水中也可能

有效。您还可以尝试将干猫薄荷喂给您的宠物，将其添加到她的食物中，剂量为每磅食物 ⅛ 至 ½ 茶匙。请

记住，这可能会让猫咪在晚餐中打滚！

Availability: Catnip has become a roadside weed in many areas. If you are not so fortunate, the plants or seeds are

available through many nurseries.

可用性：猫薄荷已成为许多地区的路边杂草。如果您没有那么幸运，可以通过许多苗圃获得植物或种子。

Propagation and Harvest: Gather the leaves, stems, and flowers before the plant goes to seed. The herb can then

be dried indoors. Spread the herb loosely on a clean sheet of paper, rearranging it frequently to prevent mold. The

herb is ready for storage when it is crispy dry.

繁殖和收获：在植物结籽之前收集叶子、茎和花。然后可以在室内干燥草药。将药草松散地铺在一张干净

的纸上，经常重新排列以防止发霉。当药草干脆时就可以储存了。

Alternatives and Adjuncts: To help settle an upset stomach and to prevent nervous vomiting, catnip combines well

with fennel. Chamomile serves as an effective adjunct or alternative in these circumstances. For motion sickness, a

pinch of ginger can be added to a teaspoon of dried, powdered catnip. The combination can then be given to a dog or

cat in a small gel capsule. One capsule should do for a cat; a dog may require two or three, depending on her size.

替代品和辅助品：为了帮助缓解胃部不适并防止神经性呕吐，猫薄荷与茴香可以很好地结合在一起。在这

些情况下，洋甘菊可以作为有效的辅助剂或替代品。对于晕车，可以在一茶匙干燥的猫薄荷粉中加入一小

撮生姜。然后可以将该组合装在小凝胶胶囊中给狗或猫服用。一只猫一粒胶囊就够了；狗可能需要两个或

三个，具体取决于她的体型。

Cautions and Comments: The herb is safe, but use it sparingly in pregnant animals, as it has been theorized that

the volatile oils it contains may be passed on to the fetus, the result of which is unknown.

注意事项和评论：这种草药是安全的，但在怀孕动物中应谨慎使用，因为理论上它所含的挥发油可能会遗

传给胎儿，其结果尚不清楚。

=== PAGE 120 ===
CAYENNE

辣椒

Capsicum spp.

辣椒属

Nightshade Family

茄科家族

Appearance: Like many common names, the words capsicum and cayenne are used as generic terms for a broad

range of small, very hot chili peppers. Most of these peppers are genetically engineered variations of two species of

the Capsicum genus: C. frutescens and C. annuum. There are dozens of varieties, but they all share a similar

appearance: shiny oval to lance-shaped, 1- to 5-inch-long leaves; small, white, star-shaped flowers; and sturdy,

sometimes vinelike stems that reach anywhere from 1 to 3 feet tall when mature.

外观：像许多常见名称一样，辣椒和卡宴这两个词被用作各种小辣椒的通用术语。这些辣椒大部分是辣椒

属两种辣椒的基因工程变种：C. frutescens 和 C. annuum。有几十个品种，但它们都有相似的外观：有光泽

的椭圆形到矛形，1到5英寸长的叶子；白色的星形小花；茎粗壮，有时呈藤蔓状，成熟时可达 1 至 3 英尺

高。

Habitat and Range: Originally a native of tropical regions of South and Central America, virtually all of the

capsicums are now cultivated in areas throughout the world with long growing seasons. In northern climes,

capsicum can be grown as an attractive houseplant.

栖息地和分布范围：原产于南美洲和中美洲的热带地区，现在几乎所有的辣椒都在世界各地生长季节较长

的地区种植。在北方气候下，辣椒可以作为一种有吸引力的室内植物种植。

Cycle and Bloom Season: Wild South American capsicums are perennial plants that can reach 7 feet in height, but

in North America most capsicums are cultivated as annuals. Most capsicums bloom in early summer and produce

ripe fruit by mid-August.

周期和开花季节：南美野生辣椒是多年生植物，高度可达 7 英尺，但在北美，大多数辣椒都是一年生植物

栽培。大多数辣椒在初夏开花，并在八月中旬结出成熟的果实。

Parts Used: Fruits

使用部位：水果

Primary Medicinal Activities: Warms and reddens the skin (rubefacient), dilates blood vessels (vasodilator), stops

bleeding (hemostatic), counterirritant, anti-inflammatory, analgesic, strengthens tissues (tonic)

主要药用活性：使皮肤变暖和变红（红化剂）、扩张血管（血管扩张剂）、止血（止血）、抗刺激、抗

炎、镇痛、增强组织（补品）

Strongest Affinities: Skin and circulatory system

最强的亲和力：皮肤和循环系统

=== PAGE 121 ===
Preparation: For internal uses, the dried and powdered fruits are most commonly contained in gel capsules. The

whole or powdered fruits may be used in oil infusions, salves, ointments, or tinctures. Various brands of capsaicin

creams and ointments are commercially available at drugstores for topical treatment of arthritis, muscle aches,

stiffness, and other conditions.

制备： 对于内部使用，干燥和粉末状的水果最常见于凝胶胶囊中。整个水果或粉末状的水果可用于油浸

剂、药膏、软膏或酊剂。药店出售各种品牌的辣椒素乳膏和软膏，用于局部治疗关节炎、肌肉疼痛、僵硬

和其他病症。

Common Uses: Capsicum is reliable in its activity as a peripheral vasodilator. Used internally, it acts to warm the

body by quickly dilating small capillaries and increasing circulation to the skin and extremities. (This is why

sweating and flushed skin is experienced when we eat foods containing cayenne.) Because of this activity, capsicum

is commonly used in the systemic treatment of impaired blood circulation, and because it triggers the outward

movement of blood throughout the body, it is often added as a “carrier” for the active components of other herbs. Its

effect in this capacity can be quite dramatic, especially when it is combined with herbs that have an affinity toward

the skin or extremities. By itself, capsicum is useful for opening capillary occlusions that are the by-product of a

crushing injury, and it is considered a specific remedy for chronically deficient peripheral circulation—situations

characterized by continuously cold paws, hands, or feet. Capsicum is also regarded as a circulatory stimulant for the

lungs and may be useful for improving pulmonary efficiency in animals with hypostatic pneumonia (a condition

arising from poor blood circulation through vascular structures of the lungs) or other conditions where edema or

other factors are interfering with proper blood circulation in pulmonary tissues.

常见用途：辣椒作为外周血管扩张剂具有可靠的活性。内部使用时，它可以通过快速扩张小毛细血管并增

加皮肤和四肢的循环来温暖身体。 （这就是为什么当我们吃含有辣椒的食物时会出汗和皮肤潮红。）由于

这种活性，辣椒通常用于血液循环受损的全身治疗，并且因为它会引发全身血液的向外流动，通常作为其

他草药活性成分的“载体”添加。它在这方面的效果非常显着，特别是当它与对皮肤或四肢有亲和力的草药

结合使用时。辣椒本身可用于打开毛细血管闭塞，毛细血管闭塞是挤压伤的副产品，并且它被认为是治疗

长期外周循环不足（以爪子、手或脚持续寒冷为特征的情况）的特殊疗法。辣椒也被认为是肺部循环兴奋

剂，可能有助于改善患有坠积性肺炎（一种因肺部血管结构血液循环不良而引起的疾病）或水肿或其他因

素干扰的其他疾病的动物的肺效率。肺组织的血液循环正常。

In most internal applications, capsicum is administered once per day in the form of a gel capsule. For a dog or a

cat, the capsule would contain a small pinch of the powder. For horses and other large animals, several full large

capsules may be needed to bring about desired results. Finding the correct dose is contingent upon the specifics of

the individual animal and the situation at hand.

在大多数内部应用中，辣椒以凝胶胶囊的形式每天施用一次。对于狗或猫来说，胶囊中会含有一小撮粉

末。对于马和其他大型动物，可能需要几个完整的大胶囊才能达到预期的效果。找到正确的剂量取决于个

体动物的具体情况和当前的情况。

Topically, capsicum works as a contact rubefacient, serving to quickly open subcutaneous capillaries while acting

as a nerve block and reducing pain at the site of application. These topical attributes make capsicum especially

useful for therapies that are to be confined to a specific portion of the body, such as those for stiff or arthritic knees

that may benefit from the herb’s instantaneous warming effect. The compound chiefly responsible for this activity is

called capsaicin, and in addition to its capacity to block pain and increase circulation, capsaicin has been shown to

activate the body’s own anti-inflammatory mediators at the site where it is applied. It not only helps to reduce pain

and congestion in arthritic joints but also acts as an assistant to the body’s internal anti-inflammatory mechanisms.

These combined actions make topical preparations of capsicum useful for safely relieving the symptoms of

rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis.

局部使用时，辣椒可作为接触性发红剂，快速打开皮下毛细血管，同时起到神经阻滞作用并减轻使用部

位的疼痛。这些局部特性使得辣椒对于仅限于身体特定部位的治疗特别有用，例如对于僵硬或关节炎的膝

盖的治疗，可能会受益于草药的瞬时升温作用。主要负责这种活性的化合物称为辣椒素，除了具有止痛和

促进血液循环的能力外，辣椒素还被证明可以在施用部位激活人体自身的抗炎介质。它不仅有助于减轻关

节炎关节的疼痛和充血，而且还可以作为身体内部抗炎机制的助手。这些综合作用使得辣椒外用制剂可有

效缓解类风湿性关节炎和骨关节炎的症状。

=== PAGE 122 ===
On the top of our list of uses for capsicum, though, is its effectiveness at stopping bleeding. It’s interesting to note

that while capsicum has such a profound ability to increase blood circulation when taken internally or applied onto

the skin, its effects are quite opposite when applied to the site of internal or external bleeding. To stop the bleeding

of a barbed wire cut, a claw that was clipped too short, or any other minor to moderate wound where profuse

bleeding does not coagulate readily on its own, capsicum powder, or ground cayenne from the kitchen cabinet, can

be liberally applied directly to the site of injury. Unless bleeding is emanating from a fairly large vessel, the result is

likely to be instantaneous, and believe it or not, capsicum really doesn’t hurt much when applied to an open wound.

然而，在我们的辣椒用途清单中，最重要的是它的止血功效。有趣的是，虽然辣椒在内服或涂抹在皮肤

上时具有促进血液循环的强大能力，但当应用于内出血或外出血部位时，其效果却完全相反。为了止血，

可以使用辣椒粉或厨房橱柜中的辣椒粉来止血，包括铁丝网割伤、剪得太短的爪子或任何其他严重出血且

不易自行凝固的轻微至中度伤口。直接涂在受伤部位。除非出血是从相当大的血管中流出，否则结果很可

能是瞬时的，不管你信不信，辣椒在开放性伤口上确实不会造成太大伤害。

Availability: Readily available wherever culinary spices are sold. Capsicum plants are available through virtually

any nursery that stocks vegetable plants.

可获得性：只要有销售烹饪香料的地方，就很容易买到。几乎所有种植蔬菜的苗圃都可以买到辣椒植物。

Propagation and Harvest: Capsicum is often slow to start from seed, so it is best to purchase young plants. Like

most peppers, capsicums that are planted outdoors require warm, sunny days and nighttime temperatures that seldom

fall below 55 degrees Fahrenheit (F) in order to produce fruit. Many varieties are quite suitable as houseplants.

繁殖和收获：辣椒从种子开始生长通常很慢，因此最好购买幼苗。与大多数辣椒一样，户外种植的辣椒需

要温暖、晴朗的白天和很少低于 55 华氏度 (F) 的夜间温度才能结出果实。许多品种非常适合作为室内植

物。

Alternatives and Adjuncts: To stop bleeding, capsicum combines well with yarrow. For circulatory problems,

hawthorn, ginkgo, ginger, and yarrow should all be considered as well.

替代品和辅助品：为了止血，辣椒与西洋蓍草可以很好地结合。对于循环系统问题，还应考虑山楂、银

杏、生姜和西洋蓍草。

=== PAGE 123 ===
Capsicum sp.

辣椒属。

Cautions and Comments: Contrary to what may seem obvious, capsicum does not cause irritation to the digestive

tract when consumed in moderate quantities, but the key word here is moderate. You should not feed capsicum to

animals who have a sensitive digestive tract or inflammatory digestive or urinary system disease unless you have a

full understanding of all underlying conditions. When used properly and in moderation, capsicum is a safe herb, but

extra care and attention are needed to assure that capsicum is truly indicated. No two animals are identical, and

where capsicum may serve to benefit one, it can cause painful irritation to another. In other words, it is best to have

your animal examined by a holistic veterinarian before proceeding with any internal therapy that includes capsicum.

Capsicum is a strong irritant to mucous membranes and should always be kept away from the eyes and nose. This is

the stuff that bear-defense pepper spray is made from. Its topical use should be avoided with animals who have

hypersensitive skin. Although capsicum is generally considered safe during pregnancy, we recommend that its use

be limited to topical applications. In our opinion, strong urinary tract irritants should not be used in pregnant or

lactating animals.

注意事项和评论：与看似显而易见的事实相反，适量食用辣椒不会对消化道造成刺激，但这里的关键词是

适量。除非您充分了解所有潜在状况，否则不应给患有敏感消化道或炎症性消化或泌尿系统疾病的动物喂

辣椒。如果使用得当且适量，辣椒是一种安全的草药，但需要格外小心和注意，以确保辣椒真正有效。没

有两只动物是完全相同的，辣椒可能对其中一种动物有益，却可能对另一种动物造成痛苦的刺激。换句话

说，在进行任何包括辣椒在内的内部治疗之前，最好先让兽医对您的动物进行全面检查。辣椒对粘膜有强

烈刺激性，应始终远离眼睛和鼻子。这就是防熊胡椒喷雾的原料。皮肤过敏的动物应避免局部使用。虽然

辣椒通常被认为在怀孕期间是安全的，但我们建议其使用仅限于局部应用。我们认为，强烈的尿路刺激物

不应该用于怀孕或哺乳期的动物。

Be sure to wash your hands with soap and water after handling any form of this herb, and don’t touch your eyes,

lips, or any other mucous membranes for about thirty minutes after.

处理任何形式的这种草药后，一定要用肥皂和水洗手，并且在大约三十分钟内不要触摸眼睛、嘴唇或任

何其他粘膜。

=== PAGE 124 ===
CHAMOMILE

洋甘菊

Matricaria recutita

母菊

Sunflower Family

向日葵家族

Appearance: German chamomile is characterized by its ½- to 1-inch flowers, each with a yellow disk surrounded

by ten to twenty white rays (petals). The common name chamomile is used in reference to dozens of related species,

but most of the medicinal uses are isolated to two genera, M. recutita (German chamomile) and Chamaemelum

nobile (Roman chamomile), and their respective subspecies. The differences between these two groups of

chamomile rest in their life cycles, the number of flowers they produce, and their overall size. German chamomile is

an annual plant that can grow to 2 feet tall, producing numerous flowers on each of its many stems. Roman

chamomile, on the other hand, is a creeping perennial that seldom exceeds 1 foot in height and produces fewer but

larger (1-inch-wide) flowers. Both German and Roman chamomiles share a nearly identical range of therapeutic

usefulness, but German chamomile is by far the more popular medicine because it has received much more research

attention and has long been regarded by herbalists as a more potent medicine than Roman chamomile. For the

purposes of this book, our primary focus is on German chamomile; there is, however, a generally overlooked wild

relative of cultivated varieties of chamomile that also deserves a place in the animal herbalist’s repertory: pineapple

weed (M. matricarioides).

外观：德国洋甘菊的特征是其 ½ 至 1 英寸的花朵，每朵都有一个黄色的圆盘，周围环绕着十到二十个白色

的射线（花瓣）。洋甘菊的通用名称用于指代数十种相关物种，但大多数药用用途仅限于两个属：M.

recutita（德国洋甘菊）和 Chamaemelum nobile（罗马洋甘菊）及其各自的亚种。这两类洋甘菊之间的差异

在于它们的生命周期、它们产生的花朵数量以及它们的整体大小。德国洋甘菊是一种一年生植物，可以长

到 2 英尺高，每根茎上都会开出无数的花朵。另一方面，罗马洋甘菊是一种多年生匍匐植物，高度很少超

过 1 英尺，花朵数量较少但较大（1 英寸宽）。德国洋甘菊和罗马洋甘菊的治疗功效几乎相同，但德国洋甘

菊是迄今为止更受欢迎的药物，因为它受到了更多的研究关注，并且长期以来被草药学家认为是比罗马洋

甘菊更有效的药物。就本书而言，我们的主要关注点是德国洋甘菊；然而，有一种普遍被忽视的洋甘菊栽

培品种野生近缘种，也值得在动物草药学家的宝库中占有一席之地：菠萝草（M. matricarioides）。

Pineapple weed looks, smells, and even tastes much like its cultivated cousins, but its flowers have no petals. This

small wayside weed is often found growing in inconspicuous ground-hugging mats in vacant lots, on road margins,

and sometimes right in the middle of a driveway!

菠萝草的外观、气味甚至味道都与其栽培的近亲很相似，但它的花没有花瓣。这种路边小杂草经常生长

在空地、道路边缘、有时甚至是车道中间不显眼的贴地垫上！

Habitat and Range: A Native of Europe and western Asia, chamomile is cultivated worldwide.

栖息地和范围：洋甘菊原产于欧洲和西亚，在世界各地都有种植。

Cycle and Bloom Season: Chamomile is notorious for its continuous bloom. In areas where the occurrence of frost

is rare, chamomile often produces flowers throughout the year.

周期和开花季节：洋甘菊因其连续开花而臭名昭著。在霜冻很少发生的地区，洋甘菊常年开花。

Parts Used: Flowers

=== PAGE 125 ===
使用部分：花

Primary Medicinal Activities: Antispasmodic, expels intestinal gas, anti-inflammatory, sedative, antimicrobial,

stimulates digestion (bitter), heals wounds, expels worms

主要药用活性：解痉、排出肠道气体、抗炎、镇静、抗菌、刺激消化（苦味）、治愈伤口、驱虫

Strongest Affinities: Skin, digestive tract, liver, nervous system, mucous membranes, smooth-muscle tissues

亲和力最强：皮肤、消化道、肝脏、神经系统、粘膜、平滑肌组织

Preparation: Water or oil infusion, tincture, salve, ointment, fomentation

制剂：水或油输液、酊剂、药膏、软膏、热敷

Common Uses: Chamomile is a mild sedative, antispasmodic, and digestive tonic that is safe, gentle, and effective

in a broad spectrum of applications. The herb tea or tincture is helpful for indigestion, gas, and vomiting.

Chamomile is perhaps the first herb to reach for in cases of digestive upset that arises from nervousness and

hyperexcitability. The chemistry of chamomile is complex, and its medicinal activities are not attributable to any

single class of constituents but rather to a synergistic sum of all its parts. However, dozens of scientific studies

(using both animals and humans) have given us solid information about which of chamomile’s chemical compounds

contribute to its effectiveness as a holistic healing device. For example, apegenin, chamazulene (and its precursor,

matricin) and other volatile oil constituents of the flowers have been shown to be strong antispasmodic agents both

in and on the body, as have several of chamomile’s flavonoid constituents. In the digestive tract, chamomile serves

to ease nervous spasms, helps to expel gas, aids in the production of bile to improve digestion, and reduces

inflammation. All of these activities amount to an excellent remedy for chronic or acute gastric disorders, including

various forms of inflammatory bowel disease.

常见用途：洋甘菊是一种温和的镇静剂、解痉剂和消化补品，安全、温和、有效，用途广泛。花草茶或酊

剂有助于治疗消化不良、胀气和呕吐。洋甘菊可能是治疗因紧张和过度兴奋而引起消化不良的第一种草

药。洋甘菊的化学成分很复杂，其药用活性并不归因于任何单一类别的成分，而是归因于其所有成分的协

同作用。然而，数十项科学研究（使用动物和人类）为我们提供了有关洋甘菊的哪些化合物有助于其作为

整体治疗装置的有效性的可靠信息。例如，芹菜素、洋甘菊烯（及其前体母菊素）和花中的其他挥发油成

分已被证明在体内和体表上都是强效的解痉剂，洋甘菊的几种黄酮类成分也是如此。在消化道中，洋甘菊

可以缓解神经痉挛，帮助排出气体，帮助产生胆汁以改善消化，并减少炎症。所有这些活动都是治疗慢性

或急性胃病（包括各种形式的炎症性肠病）的绝佳疗法。

For inflammations of the skin, including those caused by fleabites, contact allergies, and various bacterial or

fungal infections, a cooled water infusion of the flowers can be used as a soothing, healing, antimicrobial rinse. For

conjunctivitis, whether it be from bacterial infection or the result of airborne irritants or allergies, the cooled infusion

can be carefully strained through a paper coffee filter, diluted with saline solution (the end product should be

transparent and light yellow), and used as an anti-inflammatory and antimicrobial eyewash that can be applied

liberally several times per day until the inflammation subsides.

对于皮肤炎症，包括由跳蚤、接触性过敏和各种细菌或真菌感染引起的皮肤炎症，可以使用花的冷却水

浸泡作为舒缓、愈合、抗菌的冲洗液。对于结膜炎，无论是细菌感染还是空气中的刺激物或过敏引起的，

都可以将冷却的输液通过咖啡纸过滤器仔细过滤，用盐水溶液稀释（最终产品应为透明和浅黄色），然后

用作一种抗炎和抗菌洗眼剂，每天可以多次使用，直到炎症消退。

=== PAGE 126 ===
Matricaria recutita

母菊

Chamomile has also been shown to have a tonic (constricting and strengthening) effect on smooth-muscle tissues

throughout the body, including the heart, bladder, and especially the uterus. While uterine tonics may be beneficial

before pregnancy and during late-term pregnancy, herbs that constrict uterine tissues are generally contraindicated

during early pregnancy.

洋甘菊还被证明对全身平滑肌组织（包括心脏、膀胱，尤其是子宫）具有滋补（收缩和强化）作用。虽

然子宫补品可能在怀孕前和妊娠晚期有益，但收缩子宫组织的草药通常在怀孕早期是禁忌的。

In our experiences chamomile serves as a general-purpose calming herb that can be fed to animals as a “first try”

remedy for any variety of spasmodic or anxiety-related problems. Because it tastes good, is soluble in water, and is

safe for most animals, its use should be considered before stronger, less-palatable antispasmodics or sedatives are

employed.

根据我们的经验，洋甘菊是一种通用的镇静药草，可以喂给动物作为治疗各种痉挛或焦虑相关问题的“首

次尝试”疗法。因为它味道好，易溶于水，并且对大多数动物来说是安全的，所以在使用更强的、不太适口

的解痉剂或镇静剂之前应考虑使用它。

Chamomile’s usefulness in expelling worms is often overlooked in favor of faster acting herbs (such as

wormwood, black walnut hulls, or garlic), but it should not be. Chamomile is relatively nontoxic when compared to

most other “herbal wormers.” While it doesn’t work as quickly as the other anthelmintics, it does work, especially

for roundworms and whipworms, and it offers anti-inflammatory activities that help counteract the effect parasites

often have on intestinal mucosa. Pineapple weed (M. matricarioides) is even more pronounced in its worm-expelling

activities.

洋甘菊在驱虫方面的作用经常被忽视，而人们却倾向于使用起效更快的草药（如苦艾、黑胡桃壳或大

蒜），但事实并非如此。与大多数其他“草药驱虫剂”相比，洋甘菊相对无毒。虽然它的作用不如其他驱虫

药那么快，但它确实有效，特别是对于蛔虫和鞭虫，并且它具有抗炎活性，有助于抵消寄生虫通常对肠粘

膜的影响。菠萝草（M. matricarioides）的驱虫活性更为明显。

=== PAGE 127 ===
For internal uses, we prefer a glycerin tincture of the herb because it can be administered in small, easy-to-feed

doses of 0.25–0.50 milliliter per 20 pounds of the animal’s body weight, twice daily as needed to suppress

symptoms. The sweet-tasting glycerin tincture can be administered directly into the animal’s mouth, or it can be

added to the animal’s drinking water. The glycerite is also useful in treating gingivitis, especially when small

proportions of stronger antimicrobial herb extracts (such as thyme, rosemary, bee balm, Oregon grape, or echinacea)

are added. To use chamomile in this capacity, the tincture can be applied directly to the gums of the animal with a

cotton swab.

对于内服，我们更喜欢这种草药的甘油酊剂，因为它可以按每 20 磅动物体重 0.25-0.50 毫升的小剂量施

用，易于喂养，每天两次，以抑制症状。甜味甘油酊剂可以直接注入动物的口腔中，也可以添加到动物的

饮用水中。甘油还可用于治疗牙龈炎，特别是当添加少量更强效抗菌草本提取物（如百里香、迷迭香、蜂

香膏、俄勒冈葡萄或紫锥菊）时。为了发挥洋甘菊的作用，可以用棉签将酊剂直接涂抹在动物的牙龈上。

Chamomile extract can also be used in a vaporizer or steamed from boiling water for inhalation treatment of

asthma, allergies, bronchitis, and the like. In homeopathic form, chamomile is used for teething puppies to keep

them from chewing everything in sight.

洋甘菊提取物还可以用蒸发器或沸水蒸出，用于吸入治疗哮喘、过敏、支气管炎等。在顺势疗法中，洋

甘菊用于出牙的小狗，以防止它们咀嚼看到的所有东西。

Availability: Chamomile can be purchased from any health food retailer and is available at most supermarkets. The

plants are available through most nurseries, as are the seeds.

可用性：洋甘菊可以从任何健康食品零售商处购买，并且在大多数超市都有售。这些植物和种子都可以通

过大多数苗圃获得。

Propagation and Harvest: Chamomile is easy to grow in all climates, and once established its promiscuous, free-

seeding character yields abundant growth year after year. If left to its unruly self, it is likely to find its way out of

flower beds and into pathways and beyond.

繁殖和收获：洋甘菊在所有气候下都很容易生长，一旦确立了其混杂、自由播种的特性，就会年复一年地

生长茂盛。如果任由它不守规矩，它很可能会离开花坛，进入小路甚至更远的地方。

Chamomile blooms continuously throughout the growing season. The flowers can be plucked off at any time and

dried indoors on a piece of clean paper or a nonmetallic screen. Fresh flowers are useful, too, and in fact are a

stronger option for use in skin rinses and against intestinal parasites, but the dried flowers have a much more

pleasant flavor.

洋甘菊在整个生长季节持续开花。可以随时将花朵摘下并在室内用一张干净的纸或非金属屏风干燥。鲜

花也很有用，事实上，它是用于皮肤冲洗和对抗肠道寄生虫的更强选择，但干花的味道更令人愉悦。

Alternatives and Adjuncts: In cases of nervous stomach problems and gas, look to catnip, fennel, and bee balm.

Chamomile combines well with calendula, juniper leaves, or uva ursi in anti-inflammatory skin rinses. For irritable

bowel, diarrhea, and other gastric disorders, consider plantain, slippery elm, and marshmallow. For inflammatory

urinary tract problems, chamomile combines with corn silk, plantain, uva ursi, white oak bark, couch grass, and

marshmallow. For use against worms, chamomile can be combined at a 4:1 ratio (four parts chamomile to one part

other herb) with garlic, Oregon grape, organically raised goldenseal, wormwood, or black walnut hulls.

替代品和辅助剂：如果出现神经性胃病和胀气，可以考虑使用猫薄荷、茴香和蜂香膏。洋甘菊与金盏花、

杜松叶或熊果在抗炎皮肤冲洗液中完美结合。对于肠易激、腹泻和其他胃部疾病，可以考虑车前草、滑榆

和棉花糖。对于炎症性尿路问题，洋甘菊可与玉米须、车前草、熊果、白橡树皮、沙发草和棉花糖结合使

用。为了对抗蠕虫，可以将洋甘菊以 4:1 的比例（四份洋甘菊与一份其他草药）与大蒜、俄勒冈葡萄、有机

饲养的毛茛、艾草或黑胡桃壳混合。

Cautions and Comments: Chamomile is, without doubt, one of the safest herbs in existence, but some animals (and

humans too) are extremely allergic to this plant and its relatives. Always check for sensitivity before feeding this

=== PAGE 128 ===
herb by applying a small amount of the preparation to an animal’s skin. Then if no reactions are observed, feed just a

drop or two and watch for any changes in your animal.

注意和评论：毫无疑问，洋甘菊是现有的最安全的草药之一，但一些动物（以及人类）对这种植物及其亲

戚极度过敏。在喂食这种草药之前，请务必将少量制剂涂在动物的皮肤上，检查其敏感性。然后，如果没

有观察到任何反应，则只喂一两滴，并观察动物的任何变化。

Studies suggest that excessive use of chamomile during pregnancy may increase fetus reabsorption and inhibit

fetus growth in some animals.

研究表明，怀孕期间过量使用洋甘菊可能会增加胎儿的重吸收并抑制某些动物的胎儿生长。

=== PAGE 129 ===
CHAPARRAL

丛林

Larrea tridentata

三齿斑鳢

Caltrop Family

菱角家族

Appearance: Chaparral (also commonly known as creosote bush) is the predominant low-desert shrub of the U.S.

Southwest. The abundance of this shrub almost makes a description of it unnecessary, as many who live or travel

between the Pacific Ocean and inland states of the Southwest invariably find themselves within what seems to be an

endless expanse of these ancient plants. But, for those who are unfamiliar with the plant, chaparral is the chest-high

to 10-feet-tall dark green bush with spindly wind-whipped branches, which contributes to the highway hypnosis we

all suffer while driving to and from Las Vegas. The leaves are tiny (⅛ inch long) and have a greasy-leathery texture.

The bark is reddish brown toward the base of the plant and progressively lighter (to almost white) on the smaller

limbs. Flowers are minute and yellow, developing into oddly fuzzy seed-bearing capsules. Chaparral is one of the

oldest living inhabitants of our planet, with some individual plants estimated to be over ten thousand years old!

外观：灌木丛（通常也称为杂酚油灌木）是美国西南部主要的低沙漠灌木。这种灌木的丰富性几乎使得对

它的描述变得不必要，因为许多在太平洋和西南部内陆州之间生活或旅行的人总是发现自己身处这些似乎

无边无际的古老植物之中。但是，对于那些不熟悉这种植物的人来说，灌木丛是一种齐胸高到 10 英尺高的

深绿色灌木，其细长的树枝被风吹得摇摇欲坠，它让我们在开车往返拉斯维加斯时在高速公路上感到催

眠。叶子很小（⅛英寸长），具有油腻的皮革质地。树皮向植物基部呈红棕色，在较小的枝干上逐渐变浅

（几乎白色）。花又小又黄，发育成奇怪的、毛茸茸的、含有种子的蒴果。灌木丛是我们星球上最古老的

居民之一，一些植物的历史估计已经超过一万年了！

Habitat and Range: Profusely abundant from the deserts of central Texas westward through the southern half of

New Mexico and Arizona to the deserts of southern California and Nevada.

栖息地和分布范围：从德克萨斯州中部的沙漠向西穿过新墨西哥州和亚利桑那州的南半部到加利福尼亚州

南部和内华达州的沙漠，资源丰富。

Cycle and Bloom Season: Chaparral often blooms according to precipitation. Generally, this occurs any time from

March through May.

周期和开花季节：灌木丛通常根据降水量开花。一般来说，这种情况发生在三月到五月的任何时间。

Parts Used: Leaves, flowers, fruits

使用部位：叶、花、果实

Primary Medicinal Activities: Inhibits bacterial reproduction (bacteriostatic), antifungal, kills certain types of

amoeba (amoebicidal), antioxidant, helps with blood cleansing

主要药用活性：抑制细菌繁殖（抑菌）、抗真菌、杀死某些类型的阿米巴原虫（杀阿米巴）、抗氧化剂、

有助于血液净化

=== PAGE 130 ===
Larrea tridentata

三齿斑鳢

Strongest Affinities: Skin, blood, liver

最强亲和力：皮肤、血液、肝脏

Preparation: A decoction is used externally as a skin and coat rinse or as an ingredient in salves and ointments. For

small animals, the fomentation method of application is strongly advised (see chapter 1) because this form of

preparation allows the active constituents of the herb to remain on the body longer and prohibits the animal from

licking off the decoction. Salves or ointments that contain a large percentage of chaparral should also be kept out of

the mouth of the animal. For horses or other large animals, this is less of an issue, especially if the decoction is

applied to portions of the body that are beyond reach of the animal’s mouth.

制备：煎剂外用，用作皮肤和外套冲洗剂或作为药膏和软膏的成分。对于小动物，强烈建议使用热敷方法

（参见第 1 章），因为这种制剂形式可以使草药的活性成分在体内保留更长时间，并防止动物舔掉汤剂。

含有大量灌木醛的药膏或软膏也应远离动物的口。对于马或其他大型动物来说，这不是一个问题，特别是

如果将汤剂涂抹到动物嘴巴够不到的身体部位时。

Because this plant is naturally designed to resist harsh desert elements, it is poorly soluble in water. Therefore,

decoctions and alcohol-based tinctures are the best methods of extraction for this plant.

由于这种植物天生就能抵抗严酷的沙漠元素，因此它难溶于水。因此，煎剂和酒精酊剂是提取这种植物

的最佳方法。

Common Uses: American Indians of the Southwest have used this plant for centuries—for everything from the

internal treatment of tumors and hepatic (liver) diseases to topical skin treatments, including sunscreen, for

themselves and their animals. Today, herbalists use the plant as a strong bacteriostatic and antioxidant agent in the

treatment of blood and liver disorders. However, recent scientific research and documented incidents have raised

=== PAGE 131 ===
both hope and concern.

常见用途：西南部的美洲印第安人几个世纪以来一直在使用这种植物，从肿瘤和肝病的内部治疗到局部皮

肤治疗，包括为自己和他们的动物涂抹防晒霜。如今，草药师使用这种植物作为强效抑菌剂和抗氧化剂来

治疗血液和肝脏疾病。然而，最近的科学研究和记录的事件既引起了希望，也引起了担忧。

Some studies have shown that chemical constituents in chaparral may inhibit the growth of cancerous cells, while

others have shown exactly the opposite. And recently, a few accounts of serious liver damage (in humans) have been

attributed to this herb. Many theories as to why this plant may suddenly be harming us after hundreds of years of

safe medicinal use. One theory is that perhaps humanity and chaparral are evolving away from one another.

Nevertheless, thousands of people still use chaparral on a daily basis, and it remains a popular herbal medicine in

natural products markets worldwide.

一些研究表明，丛林中的化学成分可能会抑制癌细胞的生长，而其他研究则表明恰恰相反。最近，一些

严重肝损伤（人类）的报道被归因于这种草药。许多理论解释了为什么这种植物在经过数百年的安全药用

后可能会突然伤害我们。一种理论认为，也许人类和丛林正在逐渐远离彼此。尽管如此，仍有成千上万的

人每天使用灌木丛，它仍然是全球天然产品市场上受欢迎的草药。

In animals, chaparral has been shown to have strong antifungal, antibacterial, and, remarkably, amoebicidal

properties. The constituent believed to be responsible for most of chaparral’s medicinal activity is a lignan

compound known as nordihydroguaiaretic acid (NDGA). Nordihydroguaiaretic acid may be effective in treating

various forms of amebiasis, including Entamoeba histolytica , an amoeba that can be passed from humans to the

digestive tracts of dogs (but rarely to other animals) and causes acute or chronic colitis characterized by persistent

diarrhea. It has also been proven effective against Salmonella, Streptococcus, Phylococcus aureus, Bacillus subtilis,

and various other pathogens and molds. Unfortunately, chaparral’s toxicity prohibits it from most internal uses. But

its remarkable antimicrobial properties make it an excellent broad-spectrum topical agent that is as useful for the

animal handler as it is for the animal receiving care.

在动物身上，灌木丛已被证明具有很强的抗真菌、抗菌作用，而且值得注意的是，它还具有杀阿米巴的

特性。据信，丛林树的大部分药用活性的成分是一种被称为去甲二氢愈创木酸（NDGA）的木酚素化合

物。去甲二氢愈创木酸可能有效治疗各种形式的阿米巴病，包括溶组织内阿米巴，一种可以从人类传播到

狗的消化道（但很少传播到其他动物）并导致以持续性腹泻为特征的急性或慢性结肠炎的阿米巴原虫。它

还被证明可以有效对抗沙门氏菌、链球菌、金黄色葡萄球菌、枯草芽孢杆菌以及各种其他病原体和霉菌。

不幸的是，灌木丛的毒性使其无法用于大多数内服。但其卓越的抗菌特性使其成为一种出色的广谱外用制

剂，对动物处理者和接受护理的动物都同样有用。

Used as a hand rinse before and after handling animals who may be carrying Salmonella or other transmittable

pathogens or as a rinse applied prior to handling animals who are prone to infection from human-carried pathogens,

a decoction of chaparral serves an effective two-way adjunct to soap and water. For external treatment of fungal

infections of the hooves, nails, or skins of various large and small animals, chaparral is among the first herbs to try.

Just remember, keep chaparral from going into the animal’s digestive tract.

灌木丛煎剂可用作处理可能携带沙门氏菌或其他传染性病原体的动物之前和之后的洗手液，或作为处理

容易受到人类携带病原体感染的动物之前的洗手液，灌木煎剂可作为有效的双向辅助剂肥皂和水。对于各

种大小动物的蹄、指甲或皮肤的真菌感染的外部治疗，灌木丛是首先尝试的草药之一。请记住，防止丛林

进入动物的消化道。

Availability: Available through herb retailers; profusely available in the low desert regions of the southwestern U.S.

and Mexico.

供货情况：可通过药草零售商购买；在美国西南部和墨西哥的低沙漠地区大量存在。

Propagation and Harvest: In arid regions, chaparral can be transplanted into the garden as a slow-growing

landscape shrub. The leaves, twigs, and flowers can be harvested any time.

繁殖和收获：在干旱地区，灌木丛可以作为生长缓慢的景观灌木移植到花园中。叶子、树枝和花朵可以随

时收获。

=== PAGE 132 ===
Alternatives and Adjuncts: For antibacterial skin rinses, bee balm, chamomile, sage, thyme, or rosemary can be

used. For treatment of psoriasis and other inflammatory skin disorders, chaparral combines well with calendula or

aloe.

替代品和辅助剂：对于抗菌皮肤冲洗液，可以使用蜂香膏、洋甘菊、鼠尾草、百里香或迷迭香。为了治疗

牛皮癣和其他炎症性皮肤病，灌木丛与金盏花或芦荟完美结合。

Cautions and Comments: Ingestion of any form of this plant in large enough quantities may lead to liver damage.

For this reason, it is a good idea to take extra measures to assure that your animal does not lick off external

applications of chaparral after they are applied. Therefore, we recommend that you wrap dogs, cats, and other small

animals in a towel after a skin rinse has been applied.

注意事项和评论：大量摄入任何形式的这种植物都可能导致肝损伤。因此，最好采取额外措施，以确保您

的动物在使用丛林树外用药后不会舔掉它们。因此，我们建议您在清洗皮肤后用毛巾包裹狗、猫和其他小

动物。

=== PAGE 133 ===
CHICKWEED

繁缕

Stellaria media

繁缕

Pink Family

粉红家族

Appearance: Common chickweed is a weak-stemmed sprawling annual that is commonly found in lush, low-

growing mats or entangled in other growth (oftentimes in rose beds). Chickweed exhibits a unique characteristic that

makes it easy to differentiate from all look-alikes: a line of minute hairs runs up only one side of the stem; switching

sides at each pair of leaves. Opposite leaves may grow to 1½ inches and range in shape from broadly lance shaped to

oval but always have distinct points at their tips. Flowers are small (¼ inch across) and white with five petals that

are clefted at their tips to give the false appearance of ten petals. Chickweed blooms continuously, each time

dropping its seeds as it continues its sprawl.

外观：普通繁缕是一种弱茎蔓生植物，常见于郁郁葱葱、低矮的垫子中或缠绕在其他植物中（通常在玫瑰

花坛中）。繁缕展现出一种独特的特征，可以很容易地将其与所有相似的植物区分开来：一排细毛仅在茎

的一侧延伸；在每对叶子处交换侧面。对生的叶子可以长到 1.5 英寸，形状从宽矛形到椭圆形不等，但在其

尖端总是有明显的点。花朵很小（直径 1/4 英寸），呈白色，有 5 个花瓣，尖端裂开，给人以 10 个花瓣的

假象。繁缕不断开花，每次在继续蔓延时都会掉落种子。

Habitat and Range: Chickweed inhabits moist meadows, ravines, and disturbed areas throughout all of North

America, from the Brooks Range of Alaska to all points southward.

栖息地和分布范围：繁缕栖息在整个北美洲的潮湿草地、峡谷和受干扰的地区，从阿拉斯加的布鲁克斯山

脉到以南的所有地方。

Cycle and Bloom Season: An annual that blooms and free-seeds itself continuously throughout growth

周期和开花季节：一年生植物在整个生长过程中不断开花和释放种子

Parts Used: Freshly harvested leaves, flowers, and stems

使用部分：新鲜收获的叶子、花和茎

=== PAGE 134 ===
Stellaria media

繁缕

Primary Medicinal Activities: Soothing to the skin; lubricates, soothes, and protects internal mucous membranes

(demulcent), diuretic, tonic

主要药用活性：舒缓皮肤；润滑、舒缓和保护内部粘膜（镇静剂）、利尿、滋补

Strongest Affinities: Skin and digestive tract

最强的亲和力：皮肤和消化道

Preparation: Fresh whole plant, fresh juice of the plant, water or oil infusion, salves, ointments. If you have access

to a juicer, try this: Juice enough of the fresh plants to fill an ice-cube tray (preferably a stainless steel one), then

freeze it. If the tray is stored in a resealable bag and kept in a freezer, the frozen juice cubes keeps for about three

months. Individual cubes can be thawed and the juice used as needed, internally or externally.

制剂：新鲜全草、新鲜植物汁、水或油浸剂、药膏、软膏。如果您有榨汁机，请尝试以下操作：将足够的

新鲜植物榨汁，装满冰块托盘（最好是不锈钢托盘），然后冷冻。如果将托盘存放在可重新密封的袋子中

并保存在冰箱中，则冷冻果汁块可以保存大约三个月。可以将单个立方体解冻，并根据需要使用果汁，内

部或外部使用。

Common Uses: Whether for human or animal purposes, chickweed is a safe, delicious resource for providing

soothing, cooling relief for virtually any form of minor irritation. Internally, chickweed acts to soothe, protect, and

mildly lubricate the upper digestive tract. Fed in its entire fresh form, it is useful for relieving minor esophageal

irritations, such as those caused by something Rover ate that had rough edges, or even a minor bite or sting that

Godzilla the iguana suffered from snapping at an insect with bad manners. Chickweed can also be fed to dogs or cats

as a source of lubrication and light roughage that may assist in the expulsion of hair balls. For mild cases of stomach

=== PAGE 135 ===
upset that are believed to be the result of an irritated stomach lining or for a mild case of colitis, fresh chickweed or

chickweed juice is indicated as a mild first aid tonic for dogs, cats, and horses or any other herbivore. If chickweed

is not astringent or mucilaginous enough to bring relief, the therapy can be progressively “upgraded” by using

stronger herbs. Chickweed is nutritious and an excellent nutritive and digestive tonic for birds. Chickweed poultices

are useful for cooling and soothing minor burns and skin irritations, particularly when associated with itching and

dryness.

常见用途：无论是用于人类还是动物用途，繁缕都是一种安全、美味的资源，可为几乎任何形式的轻微刺

激提供舒缓、清凉的缓解作用。在内部，繁缕可以舒缓、保护和轻度润滑上消化道。以新鲜形式喂食，可

有效缓解轻微的食道刺激，例如罗孚吃下的边缘粗糙的东西引起的食道刺激，甚至是鬣蜥哥斯拉因不礼貌

地咬昆虫而遭受的轻微咬伤或蜇伤。繁缕也可以作为润滑和轻粗饲料的来源喂给狗或猫，有助于排出毛

球。对于被认为是由胃壁受刺激引起的轻度胃部不适或轻度结肠炎，新鲜繁缕或繁缕汁可作为狗、猫、马

或任何其他食草动物的温和急救补品。如果繁缕的收敛性或粘液性不足以缓解症状，则可以通过使用更强

的草药来逐步“升级”治疗。繁缕营养丰富，是鸟类优良的营养和消化补品。繁缕膏剂可用于冷却和舒缓轻

微烧伤和皮肤刺激，特别是在伴有瘙痒和干燥时。

Availability: Chickweed grows just about everywhere in the world. If you cannot find a wild source, many specialty

seed catalogs now carry the seed. Don’t bother with the dried herb you are likely to find in the marketplace—it just

isn’t the same!

可用性：繁缕在世界各地几乎都有生长。如果您找不到野生来源，现在许多专业种子目录都带有这种种

子。不要为市场上可能找到的干药草烦恼——它们只是不一样！

Propagation and Harvest: Because chickweed is a vigorous free-seeder, transplanting it into the garden is as easy

as grabbing a handful of the plants and spreading them on a moist flower bed. Give your chickweed plenty of water,

rich soil, and at least four hours of shade each day, and it will likely be at your service forever. Although this plant

likes to sprawl, its delicate (and delicious) nature seldom poses a problem to the weed-weary gardener.

繁殖和收获：由于繁缕是一种生命力旺盛的自由播种植物，因此将其移植到花园中就像抓一把植物并将其

铺在潮湿的花床上一样容易。每天给你的繁缕充足的水、肥沃的土壤和至少四个小时的阴凉处，它可能会

永远为你服务。尽管这种植物喜欢蔓延，但其精致（且美味）的性质很少给厌倦杂草的园丁带来问题。

Alternatives and Adjuncts: Aloe juice or gel is a better option for burns and irritations of the skin. In salves and

ointments, chickweed combines nicely with calendula or Saint-John’s-wort. For cases of gastrointestinal irritation

that will not respond to chickweed’s gentle nature, slippery elm, plantain, or marshmallow should be considered.

替代品和辅助剂：芦荟汁或凝胶是治疗皮肤烧伤和刺激的更好选择。在药膏和药膏中，繁缕与金盏花或圣

约翰草完美结合。对于胃肠道刺激的情况，如果繁缕的温和性质没有反应，则应考虑使用滑榆、车前草或

棉花糖。

Cautions and Comments: Generally, chickweed is considered to be a safe medicinal food plant—it can be fed to

most animals in whatever quantities they desire. Large quantities of chickweed, however, can have a laxative effect.

Always keep in mind that some animals may be allergic to chickweed. Perhaps the most important thing to consider

with the use of this plant is that it often lives among hated weeds that have been subjected to herbicides, and it is

frequently found in waste areas that are subject to various contaminants.

注意和评论：一般来说，繁缕被认为是一种安全的药用食品植物——大多数动物可以按照它们想要的数量

喂食它。然而，大量的繁缕可以起到通便作用。请始终记住，有些动物可能对繁缕过敏。也许使用这种植

物时需要考虑的最重要的事情是，它经常生活在经过除草剂处理的令人讨厌的杂草中，并且经常在受到各

种污染物影响的废物区域中发现它。

=== PAGE 136 ===
CLEAVERS

切肉刀

Galium aparine

肝素镓

Madder Family

茜草家族

Appearance: The Galium genus is large and widespread, with no fewer than thirteen species in the Pacific

Northwest alone. Species can be divided into two general groups: perennial and annual. In essence, the annual

varieties are sprawlers and climbers, often forming ground-covering mats with much weaker taproots and more

delicate stems and leaves than perennial species. All Galium plants have square stems and slender leaves that grow

in whorled clusters like bicycle spokes of two to eight leaves, depending on the species. Flowers are small and white

to greenish in color. Galium aparine (see photo) is a widely distributed annual variety that has earned most of the

attention of the herb market because of its delicate, aromatic, and readily water soluble nature. It has earned the

common names of “cleavers” and “tangleweed” because of the thousands of infinitesimal, reversed hooks on the

angles of its stems. These tiny hooks enable the plant to cling to just about anything in a fashion similar to the way

static-charged hair clings to clothing. This allows cleavers to reproduce effectively because the delicate seed-bearing

foliage is easily uprooted and carried away by passersby. Perennial varieties such as northern bedstraw (G. boreale)

do not share this unique characteristic.

外观：钆属庞大且分布广泛，仅在太平洋西北地区就有不少于 13 种。物种可分为两大类：多年生植物和一

年生植物。从本质上讲，一年生品种是蔓生植物和攀缘植物，通常形成地面覆盖垫，其主根比多年生品种

弱得多，茎和叶也更脆弱。所有的镓植物都有方形的茎和细长的叶子，叶子生长成轮状簇状，就像自行车

辐条一样，有两到八片叶子，具体取决于物种。花很小，颜色为白色到绿色。 Galium aparine（见照片）是

一种分布广泛的一年生品种，因其细腻、芳香和易溶于水的性质而赢得了草药市场的大部分关注。由于其

茎角上有数以千计的微小反向钩子，它获得了“菜刀”和“缠结草”的俗称。这些小钩使植物能够附着在几乎任

何东西上，就像带静电的头发附着在衣服上一样。这使得切肉刀能够有效地繁殖，因为带有种子的脆弱叶

子很容易被路人连根拔起并带走。多年生品种，如北方床草（G.boreale）不具有这种独特的特征。

Habitat and Range: Cleavers (G. aparine) and most other annual varieties prefer moist habitats and are commonly

found growing in shaded ravines and along streams. Northern bedstraw (G. boreale) and other perennial species can

tolerate a much wider diversity of habitats and are commonly found along road margins and in dry, sunny areas.

Both cleavers and northern bedstraw are common throughout North America and most of the Northern Hemisphere,

up to about 6,000 feet in elevation.

栖息地和分布范围：菜刀（G. aparine）和大多数其他一年生品种喜欢潮湿的栖息地，通常生长在阴凉的峡

谷和溪流沿岸。北方床秆（G. booleale）和其他多年生物种可以适应更广泛的栖息地多样性，并且常见于道

路边缘和干燥、阳光充足的地区。切肉刀和北床稻草在北美和北半球大部分地区（海拔约 6,000 英尺）都很

常见。

Cycle and Bloom Season: Annual or perennial (depending on species). Most Galium spp. bloom in early to

midsummer.

周期和开花季节：一年生或多年生（取决于物种）。大多数镓属。在初夏至仲夏开花。

Parts Used: Entire fresh plant

=== PAGE 137 ===
使用部分：整个新鲜植物

Primary Medicinal Activities: Tonic, helps with blood cleansing, diuretic, astringent, anti-inflammatory, heals

wounds

主要药用活性：滋补、帮助净化血液、利尿、收敛、抗炎、治愈伤口

Strongest Affinities: Lymph system, urinary tract, skin

最强的亲和力：淋巴系统、泌尿道、皮肤

Galium aparine

肝素镓

Preparation: Juice, tincture, or tea of the fresh plant

制备：新鲜植物的汁液、酊剂或茶

Common Uses: Herbalists have long regarded cleavers as a valuable lymphatic tonic. In essence, the lymph system

is responsible for “washing” body tissues. Throughout the body, lymph is passed across capillary barriers to remove

waste materials from healthy cell communities. The lymph is then returned to the bloodstream, where in a properly

functioning body it is cleaned of waste material by the liver and kidneys. The waste then (hopefully) leaves the body

via the usual urinary and digestive outlets.

常见用途：草药学家长期以来一直将切肉刀视为有价值的淋巴补品。本质上，淋巴系统负责“清洗”身体组

织。在整个身体中，淋巴液穿过毛细血管屏障，清除健康细胞群落中的废物。然后淋巴液返回血液，在正

常运作的身体中，肝脏和肾脏清除废物。然后废物（希望）通过通常的泌尿和消化出口排出体外。

Cleavers is used in virtually any condition that is characterized by general or localized swelling or in situations

=== PAGE 138 ===
where lymphatic circulation has been impaired by the formation of scar tissue, ulceration, or infection. Although the

activities of cleavers are subtle, the herb is believed to increase circulation of lymph in impaired areas of the body

through dilation of small, almost cellular-level capillaries. This would explain the remarkable ability of cleavers in

helping speed the healing of gastric ulcers and the herb’s long-standing reputation for aiding drainage of lymph-

engorged cysts, tumors, and inflamed tissues of the urinary tract. In addition to its lymphatic qualities, cleavers lends

mild astringent activities to its job of relieving inflammations of the upper digestive and urinary tracts. In cats, these

activities make cleavers a safe long-term aid in the treatment of feline lower urinary tract disease (FLUTD), also

known as feline urinary syndrome (FUS), and the herb may also be useful for chronic low-grade kidney

inflammation.

切割刀几乎适用于任何以全身或局部肿胀为特征的病症，或因疤痕组织、溃疡或感染的形成而损害淋巴

循环的情况。尽管切肉刀的活动很微妙，但这种草药被认为可以通过扩张几乎细胞水平的小毛细血管来增

加身体受损区域的淋巴循环。这可以解释切肉刀在帮助加速胃溃疡愈合方面的卓越能力，以及这种草药在

帮助淋巴充盈的囊肿、肿瘤和泌尿道发炎组织引流方面的长期声誉。除了其淋巴特性外，切肉刀还具有温

和的收敛作用，可以缓解上消化道和泌尿道的炎症。对于猫来说，这些活动使切肉刀成为治疗猫下尿路疾

病 (FLUTD)（也称为猫泌尿综合症 (FUS)）的安全长期辅助工具，并且这种草药也可能对慢性低度肾脏炎

症有用。

Because cleavers is thought to increase lymphatic flow throughout body tissues, it may be useful as an alterative

therapy in the treatment of various skin disorders. From a holistic perspective, skin problems such as psoriasis and

eczema are usually the result of poor elimination of systemic waste. Instead of being “washed” out by the lymph

system, “filtered” by the liver and kidneys, and eliminated from the body, the waste materials build up in the body,

resulting in diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis and conditions such as flaky, oily, or itchy skin. By improving

lymphatic circulation, a critical level of systemic waste management is assisted.

由于切割刀被认为可以增加整个身体组织的淋巴流量，因此它可能可用作治疗各种皮肤疾病的替代疗

法。从整体角度来看，牛皮癣和湿疹等皮肤问题通常是由于全身废物排除不畅造成的。这些废物并没有被

淋巴系统“清洗”、被肝脏和肾脏“过滤”并排出体外，而是在体内积聚，导致类风湿性关节炎等疾病以及片

状、油腻等疾病。 ，或皮肤发痒。通过改善淋巴循环，有助于达到关键水平的系统废物管理。

Although relatively little scientific research has been done to validate these claims, its long history of use and safe

track record make cleavers a worthwhile tonic for those who are willing to accept natural healing based on anecdotal

evidence. A typical starting dose of the glycerin tincture for dogs, cats, birds, and other animals is 0.5–1.0 milliliter

per 50 pounds of the animal’s body weight, twice daily. Horses, rabbits, and other herbivores can be fed the fresh

herb in their daily meals.

尽管验证这些说法的科学研究相对较少，但其悠久的使用历史和安全记录使得切肉刀对于那些愿意接受

基于轶事证据的自然疗法的人来说是一种值得的补品。对于狗、猫、鸟类和其他动物来说，甘油酊剂的典

型起始剂量为每 50 磅动物体重 0.5-1.0 毫升，每天两次。马、兔子和其他食草动物可以在日常膳食中喂食

新鲜药草。

Availability: Cleavers is a common wild plant throughout most of the Northern Hemisphere. It is available in

various forms at local herb retailers, but remember that the dried herb (or any preparation of the dried herb) is

inferior medicine compared to the fresh plant. If you plan to purchase a commercial preparation of cleavers, check

the label to make sure that it was produced from the fresh plant—otherwise, you might be buying an expensive but

powerless herb. Fresh plant tinctures, in our opinion, is the best choice.

可用性：切肉刀是北半球大部分地区常见的野生植物。当地草药零售商有多种形式出售，但请记住，与新

鲜植物相比，干草药（或干草药的任何制剂）是劣质药物。如果您打算购买商用切肉刀制剂，请检查标签

以确保它是由新鲜植物生产的 - 否则，您可能会购买一种昂贵但无作用的草药。我们认为，新鲜植物酊剂

是最好的选择。

Propagation and Harvest: A few specialty seed catalogs offer cleavers (G. aparine) seed, and many nurseries sell

starts of “sweet woodruff,” a generic term for any variety of perennial Galium spp. sold as bedding plants. While

these cultivars likely possess medicinal attributes, exactly how they measure up to the “herbalist-approved” G.

aparine is unknown.

=== PAGE 139 ===
繁殖和收获：一些专业种子目录提供切刀（G. aparine）种子，许多苗圃出售“甜木叶”的种子，这是任何一

种多年生草本植物的通用术语。作为花坛植物出售。虽然这些品种可能具有药用特性，但它们究竟如何达

到“草药师批准的”G. aparine 的水平尚不清楚。

Alternatives and Adjuncts: For problems involving the lymphatic system, cleavers combines with calendula,

echinacea, or astragalus. For skin and liver problems, cleavers is best if combined with alterative, diuretic, and liver-

strengthening and stimulating herbs—dandelion, burdock, Oregon grape, milk thistle, and yellow dock should be

considered. For treatment of tumors, cleavers is traditionally combined with red clover, licorice, violet, or aloe. For

urinary tract problems, check out corn silk, marshmallow, and couch grass as alternatives or adjuncts.

替代品和辅助剂：对于涉及淋巴系统的问题，切肉刀与金盏花、紫锥菊或黄芪结合使用。对于皮肤和肝脏

问题，切肉刀最好与替代、利尿、强化肝脏和刺激的草药结合使用——应考虑蒲公英、牛蒡、俄勒冈葡

萄、水飞蓟和黄坞。为了治疗肿瘤，切肉刀传统上与红三叶草、甘草、紫罗兰或芦荟结合使用。对于泌尿

道问题，可以使用玉米须、棉花糖和沙发草作为替代品或辅助品。

Cautions and Comments: Cleavers is a safe herb. No contraindications have been noted with animal or human use,

although allergic reaction is a possibility to consider before feeding.

注意事项和评论：切肉刀是一种安全的草药。尽管在喂养前可能要考虑过敏反应，但尚未发现动物或人类

使用有禁忌症。

=== PAGE 140 ===
COLTSFOOT

款冬

Petasites and

百叶石和

Tussilago species

杜鹃花属

Sunflower Family

向日葵家族

Appearance: The common name of coltsfoot is shared by two distinctly different genera, Tussilago and Petasites.

The classic Old World coltsfoot is T. farfara , a European native that produces light yellow, dandelion-like flowers

and leaves proportionately large and heart shaped. The Petasites genus, on the other hand, produces its flowers on a

leafless stem before the leaves fully develop. Five species of Petasites inhabit North America, while T. farfara is

strictly a naturalized import here. Both genera of coltsfoot are equally valuable as medicines. For the purposes of

identifying varieties native to North America, we focus on the Petasites clan of coltsfoot.

外观：款冬属的俗名是两个截然不同的属：款冬属（Tussilago）和款冬属（Petasites）。经典的东半球款冬

是 T.farfara，原产于欧洲，能开出淡黄色、蒲公英状的花朵，叶子比例较大，呈心形。另一方面，瓣花属在

叶子完全发育之前在无叶的茎上开花。北美洲栖息着五种 Petasite，而 T. farfara 是这里严格意义上的归化进

口。这两个属的款冬都具有同等的药用价值。为了识别原产于北美的品种，我们重点关注款冬的 Petasites

家族。

The flowers of Petasites are generally drab and featherlike, ranging in color from white to light purple, and are

presented in a cluster at the top of the plant. Leaves vary in shape according to species, from triangular (P. frigidus

and P. nivalis) or narrowly arrow shaped (P. sagitatta ), to broadly oval shaped with deep palmate (resembling a

hand with the fingers spread) lobes (P. palmatus). The 3-to 10-inch-wide leaves are presented on long leaf stems

that extend directly from thick, creeping rootstocks and are dark green on their upper surfaces and lighter green and

feltlike on their undersides.

瓣叶植物的花通常是土褐色和羽毛状的，颜色从白色到浅紫色，并在植物的顶部成簇出现。叶子的形状

因物种而异，从三角形（P. frigidus 和 P. nivalis）或窄箭形（P. sagitatta），到宽椭圆形、深掌状（类似于手

指张开的手）裂片（P. palmatus） ）。 3至10英寸宽的叶子长在长叶茎上，叶茎直接从厚实的匍匐砧木延伸

出来，上表面呈深绿色，下表面呈浅绿色，呈毡状。

Habitat and Range: Coltsfoot requires consistent moisture at its feet and is usually found along streams, in wet

meadows, and on shaded road margins, particularly where water seepage is continuous. Several species of Petasites

range in forested areas from Alaska southward to California and eastward across the northern half of North America.

The European variety of coltsfoot (T. farfara) has escaped cultivation in the northeastern portions of the U.S., where

it enjoys similar habitat characteristics.

栖息地和分布范围：款冬的脚部需要持续的湿度，通常出现在溪流沿岸、潮湿的草地和阴凉的道路边缘，

特别是在持续渗水的地方。数种 Petasite 分布在从阿拉斯加向南到加利福尼亚州以及向东穿越北美洲北半部

的森林地区。欧洲品种的款冬 (T.farfara) 在美国东北部地区已不再种植，在那里它具有类似的栖息地特征。

=== PAGE 141 ===
Petasites palmatus

掌叶蜂

Cycle and Bloom Season: Late March to early June

周期和开花季节：3月下旬至6月上旬

Parts Used: Leaves and stems of the mature plant

使用部位：成熟植物的叶和茎

Primary Medicinal Activities: Expectorant, eases cough spasms (antispasmodic), anti-inflammatory, antibacterial

主要药用活性：祛痰、缓解咳嗽痉挛（解痉）、抗炎、抗菌

Strongest Affinities: Lungs and upper respiratory tract

最强的亲和力：肺和上呼吸道

Preparation: Water infusion (tea), tincture, or syrup

制剂：水浸剂（茶）、酊剂或糖浆

Common Uses: People have been using coltsfoot for hundreds of years in the treatment of respiratory ailments

ranging from chest colds to whooping cough, asthma, and viral pneumonia. Coltsfoot has long been regarded as a

first choice for relieving the rawness and pain of unproductive spasmodic coughs. It is soothing because of its

mucilage, and the ingredient petasin acts as an antispasmodic and nerve sedative for the bronchial rings and

pulmonary receptors in the lungs.

=== PAGE 142 ===
常见用途：数百年来，人们一直使用款冬来治疗呼吸道疾病，包括感冒、百日咳、哮喘和病毒性肺炎。款

冬长期以来一直被认为是缓解痉挛性咳嗽的疼痛和疼痛的首选。它因其粘液而具有舒缓作用，其成分

petasin 对肺部的支气管环和肺受体具有解痉和神经镇静作用。

Coltsfoot is useful in easing the discomforts of respiratory infections that are characterized by dry cough or

seemingly immobile accumulations of thick phlegm in the bronchi. We find it particularly useful for

tracheobronchitis in dogs (specifically kennel cough), especially when combined with anti-viral herbs such as

licorice. Preparations of T. farfara have been shown to inhibit Bordetella pertussis, a bacterial component of the

kennel cough malady, as well as various other strains of gram-negative bacteria such as Staphylococcus aureus,

Proteus hauseri, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and Proteus vulgaris. All of this makes coltsfoot useful as a respiratory

disinfectant, expectorant, and cough suppressant in a wide variety of different animals—plus it acts in a holistic

manner.

款冬可有效缓解呼吸道感染带来的不适，其特征是干咳或支气管中看似不动的浓痰积聚。我们发现它对

狗的气管支气管炎（特别是犬舍咳嗽）特别有用，特别是与甘草等抗病毒草药结合使用时。 T. Farfara 制剂

已被证明可以抑制百日咳博德特氏菌（狗窝咳病的一种细菌成分）以及各种其他革兰氏阴性菌菌株，例如

金黄色葡萄球菌、豪氏变形杆菌、铜绿假单胞菌和普通变形杆菌。所有这些使得款冬在多种不同的动物中

可用作呼吸道消毒剂、祛痰剂和止咳剂，而且它具有整体作用。

Many forms of cough suppressants (including wild cherry bark) simply suppress the body’s efforts to heal itself

by acting upon the brain to block the body’s cough response mechanisms. Coltsfoot, on the other hand, gently assists

the body in its efforts to clear invading microbes out of the upper respiratory tract.

许多形式的止咳药（包括野樱桃树皮）只是通过作用于大脑来阻止身体的咳嗽反应机制，从而抑制身体

的自我修复能力。另一方面，款冬会温和地帮助身体清除上呼吸道入侵的微生物。

Glycerin tinctures are the ideal form of administration of this herb. A good starting dosage for most animals is

0.5–1.5 milliliters (or about ⅓ teaspoon) per 20 pounds of an animal’s body weight, two to three times a day.

甘油酊剂是这种草药的理想给药方式。对于大多数动物来说，合适的起始剂量是每 20 磅动物体重 0.5–1.5

毫升（或约 ⅓ 茶匙），每天 2 到 3 次。

Availability: Although coltsfoot is currently under FDA scrutiny and will likely be labeled as “unsafe for internal

use,” the tincture or dried herb remains widely available through herb retailers.

可用性：虽然款冬目前正在接受 FDA 的审查，并且可能会被贴上“内部使用不安全”的标签，但酊剂或干药

草仍然可以通过药草零售商广泛购买。

Propagation and Harvest: Coltsfoot (both Tussilago and Petasites) can be propagated in a garden if given ample

shade and rich, consistently moist, slightly acidic soil. This winter-hardy plant does best in a cool climate.

繁殖和收获：如果提供充足的遮荫和肥沃、持续湿润的微酸性土壤，款冬（Tussilago 和 Petasites）可以在

花园中繁殖。这种耐寒植物在凉爽的气候下生长得最好。

Alternatives and Adjuncts: For deep coughs and bronchial congestion, coltsfoot may be combined with mullein,

horehound, licorice, or elecampane. For respiratory infections that are believed to be bacterial or fungal in origin,

coltsfoot can be boosted with echinacea, Oregon grape, bee balm, or thyme. For respiratory viruses, licorice and

echinacea are good adjuncts.

替代品和辅助药物：对于深度咳嗽和支气管充血，款冬可与毛蕊花、苦海草、甘草或土木香结合使用。对

于被认为是细菌或真菌引起的呼吸道感染，可以用紫锥菊、俄勒冈葡萄、蜂香膏或百里香增强款冬的效

果。对于呼吸道病毒，甘草和紫锥菊是很好的辅助剂。

Cautions and Comments: Coltsfoot contains PAs. The PA content of coltsfoot is about one-third of that contained

in comfrey (Symphytum spp.), and most of this compound is contained in the plant’s flowers, not the leaves and

stems. What this means is that the PA content of coltsfoot is really quite low. Nevertheless, it can cause harm if it is

used in absence of common sense. For more on pyrrolizidine alkaloids (PAs), see “Comfrey.”

=== PAGE 143 ===
注意事项和评论：款冬含有 PA。款冬的 PA 含量约为紫草 (Symphytum spp.) 的三分之一，而且这种化合物

大部分存在于植物的花中，而不是叶和茎中。这说明款冬的PA含量确实很低。然而，如果在缺乏常识的情

况下使用，它可能会造成伤害。有关吡咯里西啶生物碱 (PA) 的更多信息，请参阅“紫草”。

=== PAGE 144 ===
COMFREY

紫草

Symphytum officinale

聚合草

Borage Family

琉璃苣家族

Appearance: Comfrey is a robust plant with coarsely textured, broadly lance-shaped leaves that may exceed a foot

in length at the base of the plant and become progressively smaller toward the top of the plant. The leaves and

hollow stalk of the plant are covered with bristly hairs that tend to irritate human skin. The downy tubular flowers

are presented among the small upper leaves in drooping clusters and are usually a shade of pink or purple but are

sometimes white or pale yellow. Large plants may reach 3 or more feet in height and multiply vigorously by

continuous root division, sometimes forming their own sort of hedgelike clump. Symphytum uplandicum (Russian

comfrey) may grow in excess of 6 feet tall.

外观：紫草是一种健壮的植物，叶子质地粗糙，呈宽矛状，植物基部的长度可能超过一英尺，向植物顶部

逐渐变小。该植物的叶子和空心茎上覆盖着刚毛，会刺激人体皮肤。绒毛管状花以下垂的簇状出现在上部

小叶子中，通常呈粉红色或紫色，但有时呈白色或淡黄色。大型植物的高度可能达到 3 英尺或更高，并通

过连续的根分裂而旺盛地繁殖，有时形成自己的树篱状丛。 Symphytum uplandicum（俄罗斯紫草）可长到

超过 6 英尺高。

Habitat and Range: Over thirty-five species of Symphytum are in cultivation worldwide, most having originated

from Europe and western Asia. In North America, common comfrey (S. officinale) and Russian comfrey (S.

uplandicum) are the most common garden varieties.

栖息地和分布范围：全世界有超过 35 种 Symphytum 品种，其中大多数起源于欧洲和西亚。在北美，普通

紫草（S. officinale）和俄罗斯紫草（S. uplandicum）是最常见的花园品种。

Cycle and Bloom Season: A perennial that blooms from early spring to late fall

周期和开花季节：从早春到晚秋开花的多年生植物

Parts Used: All aboveground parts

使用的部件：所有地上部件

Primary Medicinal Activities: Heals wounds; anti-inflammatory; astringent; lubricates, soothes, and protects

internal mucous membranes; expectorant

主要药用活性：治愈伤口；消炎（药;涩;润滑、舒缓和保护内部粘膜；祛痰剂

Strongest Affinities: Skin, digestive tract, respiratory tract

亲和力最强：皮肤、消化道、呼吸道

Preparation: Water or oil infusion, poultice, salve, fomentation

=== PAGE 145 ===
制剂：水或油输液、膏剂、药膏、热敷

Common Uses: Where does one start with an herb that has had such a rich history as a healing device? Comfrey

traditionally has been used for everything from mastitis in goats to cancer in humans. Virtual libraries of scientific

research and anecdotal records have been compiled over the centuries to substantiate, deny, or otherwise argue

comfrey’s value and safety as an herbal medicine. Most of what you may have heard about this plant extends to

animals (especially mammals), including toxicity issues, and almost everyone who has lived around horses, goats,

sheep, llamas, and a comfrey patch knows how valuable this plant is.

常见用途：人们从哪里开始使用一种作为治疗手段有着丰富历史的草药呢？紫草传统上被用于治疗从山羊

乳腺炎到人类癌症的各种疾病。几个世纪以来，科学研究和轶事记录的虚拟图书馆已经被编译出来，以证

实、否认或以其他方式论证紫草作为草药的价值和安全性。您可能听说过的关于这种植物的大部分信息都

适用于动物（尤其是哺乳动物），包括毒性问题，几乎所有生活在马、山羊、绵羊、美洲驼和紫草丛周围

的人都知道这种植物的价值。

Symphytum officinale

聚合草

Comfrey is among the first herbs to consider in the topical treatment of burns, skin ulcerations, abrasions,

lacerations, flea and other insect bites, or just about any other irritation. Likewise, a poultice, salve, or infusion of

the leaves can be applied directly to bruises, fractures, sprains, and other closed-tissue injuries. Most of the healing

effects are attributable to allantoin, a compound that has been shown in several studies to speed cell reproduction,

both inside and outside of the body. In fact, many herbalists have found that comfrey works so well at speed-healing

injuries that it can actually seal bacteria into the site of an open wound. To prevent this from happening, a strong

antibacterial herb such as Oregon grape, thyme, usnea, or Saint-John’s-wort should be added to any comfrey

preparation that is intended for open wounds, especially burns. In addition to its cell-proliferation activity, comfrey’s

mucilaginous nature provides a soothing, lubricating, and protective barrier to the skin and inflammations of the

digestive tract. Comfrey also contains rosmarinic acid and several other compounds that have been shown to

=== PAGE 146 ===
contribute anti-inflammatory, analgesic, and astringent qualities to its list of healing attributes.

紫草是局部治疗烧伤、皮肤溃疡、擦伤、撕裂伤、跳蚤和其他昆虫叮咬或任何其他刺激时首先考虑的草

药之一。同样，药膏、药膏或叶子浸液可以直接应用于瘀伤、骨折、扭伤和其他闭合组织损伤。大部分的

治疗效果都归功于尿囊素，多项研究表明这种化合物可以加速体内和体外的细胞繁殖。事实上，许多草药

医生发现紫草在加速伤口愈合方面效果非常好，甚至可以将细菌密封在开放性伤口的部位。为了防止这种

情况发生，应在任何用于治疗开放性伤口（尤其是烧伤）的紫草制剂中添加强效抗菌草药，例如俄勒冈葡

萄、百里香、松萝或圣约翰草。除了其细胞增殖活性外，紫草的粘液性质还为皮肤和消化道炎症提供了舒

缓、润滑和保护屏障。紫草还含有迷迭香酸和其他几种化合物，这些化合物已被证明具有抗炎、镇痛和收

敛作用，具有治疗功效。

For external treatment of closed injuries, skin ulcers, or mastitis, you can make a poultice or fomentation from the

fresh or dried leaves and apply to the affected area. If you have access to fresh comfrey leaves, wrap a handful in a

clean towel, then place the towel into a bowl of boiling water. Allow it to soak until the water just begins to turn

green, then remove the towel and leaves and squeeze the excess water from the towel back into the bowl. After

allowing the fomentation to cool slightly, apply the warm compress to the affected area. With horses and other large

animals, this might require you to secure the compress onto a swollen limb with a strip of gauze or a clean piece of

fabric torn from some old clothing. Leave the compress on for as long as possible—preferably eight hours or more.

The extra “comfrey tea” that you squeezed back into the bowl can be applied to the compress from time to time and

allowed to soak through to where it is needed. In cases of mastitis or other ailments where a fixed compress is not

practical, an ointment or salve is a better option. If neither of these preparations is available, try making a strong tea

of the leaves (fresh leaves are always superior to dried) and rinsing the entire area with the lukewarm liquid several

times per day.

对于闭合性损伤、皮肤溃疡或乳腺炎的外用治疗，可以用新鲜或干燥的叶子制成膏剂或热敷剂，涂在患

处。如果您有新鲜的紫草叶，请用干净的毛巾包裹一把，然后将毛巾放入一碗沸水中。让它浸泡，直到水

开始变绿，然后取出毛巾和叶子，将毛巾上多余的水挤回碗中。待热敷稍微冷却后，对患处进行热敷。对

于马和其他大型动物，这可能需要您用一条纱布或从旧衣服上撕下的一块干净的织物将敷布固定在肿胀的

四肢上。尽可能长时间地敷布——最好是八小时或更长时间。您可以不时地将多余的“紫草茶”挤回碗中涂

抹到敷料上，并让其渗透到需要的地方。如果出现乳腺炎或其他疾病而无法进行固定敷贴，则软膏或药膏

是更好的选择。如果这些准备工作都没有，请尝试用叶子泡浓茶（新鲜叶子总是优于干叶子），并每天用

微温的液体冲洗整个区域几次。

Internal use of comfrey has become a controversial issue and is strongly discouraged by the FDA, though millions

of people have been using this herb safely and effectively in their animals (and themselves) for centuries. As is true

for many other herbs, the safe use of comfrey is measured by moderation and common sense.

紫草的内部使用已成为一个有争议的问题，并受到 FDA 的强烈反对，尽管数百年来数百万人一直在他们

的动物（和他们自己）中安全有效地使用这种草药。与许多其他草药一样，紫草的安全使用是通过适度和

常识来衡量的。

For treatment of colitis, stomach ulcers, or just about any other inflammation of the digestive tract, a handful of

the fresh leaves or 2–3 ounces of the dried leaves can be fed directly to horses and other large herbivores on a daily

basis for up to two weeks. For dogs and cats, ½–1 teaspoon of the dried herb for each pound of food fed should be of

therapeutic benefit.

为了治疗结肠炎、胃溃疡或任何其他消化道炎症，每天可以将一把新鲜叶子或 2-3 盎司干叶子直接喂给

马和其他大型食草动物，以达到治疗效果。至两周。对于狗和猫来说，每磅食物喂 ½–1 茶匙干草药应该具

有治疗作用。

Comfrey is traditionally used for bronchitis and other respiratory ailments that are relieved by its soothing anti-

inflammatory nature. A cooled tea serves this purpose well. Administer 1 tablespoon per 20 pounds of the animal’s

body weight, twice daily. In all cases of internal use, feeding of comfrey should be limited to occasional short-term

therapies. By no means should comfrey be fed to an animal as a daily food supplement because the plant contains

small cumulative amounts of potentially toxic PAs. For the same reason, highly concentrated preparations such as

tinctures or strong decoctions should not be employed internally.

紫草传统上用于治疗支气管炎和其他呼吸道疾病，其舒缓的抗炎作用可以缓解这些疾病。冷茶可以很好

地达到这个目的。每 20 磅动物体重服用 1 汤匙，每天两次。在所有内部使用的情况下，紫草的喂养应仅限

于偶尔的短期治疗。紫草绝对不应该作为每日食品补充剂饲喂给动物，因为该植物含有少量累积的潜在有

=== PAGE 147 ===
毒 PA。出于同样的原因，不应内服高浓度制剂，例如酊剂或浓汤剂。

Availability: Any nursery that carries herb plants has access to comfrey. The dried herb and various salves,

ointments, and other preparations containing comfrey are available through health food retailers and herb stores.

可用性：任何种植草本植物的苗圃都可以使用紫草。干草药和各种药膏、软膏和其他含有紫草的制剂可通

过保健食品零售商和草药商店购买。

Propagation and Harvest: Comfrey can be easily started from root cuttings. It grows in just about any soil and is

hardy as far north as central Canada. The biggest plants, though, are found in rich, deep, moist soil with a pH level

in the range of 6 to 7.5. Once established, comfrey needs little attention. In fact, its rambunctious growth will amaze

you. We live in an area of Montana that has a scant one hundred-day growing season and winter temperatures that

may plunge to–40°F, yet our comfrey (which grows from beneath the foundation of the house) can be divided into

multiple new starts at least twice per year!

繁殖和收获：紫草可以很容易地从根插条开始。它几乎可以在任何土壤中生长，并且可以耐寒，远至加拿

大中部。然而，最大的植物生长在肥沃、深厚、潮湿、pH 值在 6 至 7.5 之间的土壤中。一旦建立，紫草就

不需要太多关注。事实上，它的狂暴增长会让你大吃一惊。我们生活在蒙大拿州的一个地区，该地区的生

长季节只有短短一百天，冬季气温可能会骤降至零下 40°F，但我们的紫草（从房屋地基下生长）可以分为

多个新的开始每年至少两次！

Alternatives and Adjuncts: For external applications, comfrey combines especially well with calendula,

chamomile, aloe, Saint-John’s-wort, or bee balm. For gastric disorders, comfrey combines with cleavers, calendula,

catnip, or chamomile.

替代品和辅助剂：对于外用，紫草与金盏花、洋甘菊、芦荟、圣约翰草或蜂香膏结合得特别好。对于胃

病，紫草可与菜刀、金盏花、猫薄荷或洋甘菊结合使用。

Cautions and Comments: The issues of toxicity that have haunted comfrey in recent years have become a major

subject of frustration for herbalists, a source of apprehension and political ammunition for opponents of herbal

medicine, and a wealth of misinformation, confusion, and fear for the casual herb user. While the FDA and other

protective agencies are doing their jobs as best they can during a major health care revolution—and it is not our

intent to criticize them—most herbalists agree that comfrey has received an undeserved bad reputation. The FDA

has banned the sale of comfrey for internal use, but in thousands of years of use by millions of people, only two

reports of hepatotoxicity have been documented in humans.

注意和评论：近年来困扰紫草的毒性问题已成为草药学家沮丧的一个主要问题，成为草药反对者的忧虑和

政治弹药的来源，并为人们带来了大量的错误信息、困惑和恐惧。休闲草药使用者。虽然 FDA 和其他保护

机构在一场重大的医疗保健革命中尽了最大努力，我们无意批评他们，但大多数草药医生都认为紫草科植

物受到了不应有的坏名声。 FDA 已禁止销售紫草供内服使用，但在数百万人使用的数千年中，只有两份有

关人类肝毒性的报告记录在案。

Indeed, comfrey contains PAs, which are known to cause liver damage or cancer if ingested in large enough

quantities. Most of the concern surrounding these alkaloids, however, comes from studies or cases where the

alkaloids were isolated from the rest of the plant’s chemistry and then fed or injected into test animals in quantities

or concentrations hundreds of times greater than those that would occur in nature. Common sense dictates that

anything ingested in overabundance is potentially toxic, but given the fact that the PA content in a fresh comfrey

leaf amounts to only about 0.3 percent of its total chemistry, the average horse would need to eat several hundred

pounds of the leaves each day before any toxic effects would be observed! Coffee contains over one dozen

potentially toxic alkaloids—so does chocolate. However, the real threat from PAs comes from the fact that these

alkaloids may accumulate in the body, perhaps to toxic levels, if used continually over a long period. Therefore, if

you plan to use comfrey or any other herb that contains PAs in an internal application, do so with moderation and

only for short periods. Don’t use comfrey in pregnant or lactating animals or in animals with preexisting liver

disease. Also, keep in mind that the PA content of the root is ten times greater than that of the fresh leaves;

=== PAGE 148 ===
therefore, the root shouldn’t be used internally. On the other hand, the PA content of the dried leaves, the form in

which comfrey is most readily available in the marketplace, is practically nil.

事实上，紫草含有 PA，如果摄入足够多，会导致肝损伤或癌症。然而，围绕这些生物碱的大部分担忧来

自于研究或案例，其中生物碱从植物的其余化学成分中分离出来，然后喂食或注射到测试动物体内，其数

量或浓度比自然界中存在的数量或浓度高数百倍。常识表明，任何过量摄入的东西都可能有毒，但考虑到

新鲜紫草叶中的 PA 含量仅占其总化学成分的 0.3% 左右，平均每匹马需要吃掉数百磅的叶子观察到任何毒

性作用的前一天！咖啡含有十多种潜在有毒的生物碱，巧克力也是如此。然而，PA 的真正威胁来自于这样

一个事实：如果长期持续使用，这些生物碱可能会在体内积累，甚至可能达到有毒水平。因此，如果您打

算在内服中使用紫草或任何其他含有 PA 的草药，请适量使用，并且只能短期使用。不要在怀孕或哺乳期动

物或患有肝病的动物中使用紫草。另外，请记住，根部的 PA 含量是新鲜叶子的十倍；因此，根不应该在内

部使用。另一方面，紫草干叶（紫草在市场上最容易买到的形式）的 PA 含量几乎为零。

=== PAGE 149 ===
CORN SILK

玉米须

Zea mays

玉米

Grass Family

草家族

Appearance: We’re sorry if you were expecting something other than the obvious here, but the corn silk we’re

referring to is simply the hairlike pollen-receiving portion of a corn stalk, the part most of us throw away first when

we peel an ear of corn.

外观：如果您期待的不是这里显而易见的东西，我们很抱歉，但我们指的玉米丝只是玉米秆上毛状花粉接

收部分，我们大多数人在剥皮时首先扔掉的部分玉米穗

Habitat and Range: Farms and gardens throughout the world

栖息地和范围：世界各地的农场和花园

Cycle and Bloom Season: An annual that blooms in early summer. The “silk” develops just as the plant is

beginning to form cobs.

周期和开花季节：一年生植物，在初夏开花。当植物开始形成穗轴时，“丝”就会发育。

Parts Used: Silk

使用部件：丝绸

Primary Medicinal Activities: Diuretic; lubricates, soothes, and protects internal mucous membranes; anti-

inflammatory, stimulates the liver (cholagogue), astringent

主要药用活性：利尿剂；润滑、舒缓和保护内部粘膜；抗炎、刺激肝脏（利胆）、收敛

Strongest Affinities: Genitourinary tract, including the kidneys

最强的亲和力：泌尿生殖道，包括肾脏

Preparation: A low-alcohol (less than 25 percent alcohol) tincture or an infusion (tea) of the fresh silk is preferable.

The dried silk may be used if it is fresh, but it is not as potent as silk that has been recently pulled from the plant.

制备方法：最好是低度酒精（酒精含量低于25%）酊剂或鲜丝浸剂（茶）。如果干燥的丝是新鲜的，则可

以使用，但它不如最近从植物中拔出的丝有效。

Common Uses: First and foremost, corn silk is indicated wherever chronic inflammation exists in any portion of the

urinary tract or kidneys. It is specifically indicated in FLUTD, where it serves to reduce inflammation without

causing added irritation to the kidneys. Unlike many other diuretic and astringent herbs used to increase urine output

by means of kidney irritation, corn silk does not contain harsh volatile oils that may compound the problems of

=== PAGE 150 ===
inflammatory kidney disease. Therefore, it is useful for improving kidney function during early onset kidney failure

or for helping with the reduction of pain and inflammation in the passing of kidney or bladder stones (especially

when combined with marshmallow). The astringency factor of corn silk is enough to tighten and strengthen the

lining of the bladder and the smooth-muscle tissues of the urinary tract, making the herb useful in some cases of

chronic urinary incontinence, but it is not strong enough to effectively stop acute cases of bleeding or inflammation.

So, corn silk is best remembered as a long-term medicine for chronic urinary problems. Corn silk has been shown to

lower blood pressure and blood sugar levels and to possess cholagogue and diuretic activities in laboratory animals.

All of these activities serve as clues as to why corn silk is especially effective as a general kidney tonic.

常见用途：首先，玉米须适用于泌尿道或肾脏任何部位存在慢性炎症的地方。它特别适用于 FLUTD，它可

以减少炎症而不会对肾脏造成额外的刺激。与许多其他通过刺激肾脏来增加尿量的利尿和收敛草药不同，

玉米须不含可能加剧炎症性肾病问题的刺激性挥发油。因此，它有助于改善早期肾衰竭期间的肾功能，或

有助于减轻肾脏或膀胱结石排出时的疼痛和炎症（特别是与棉花糖结合使用时）。玉米须的收敛因子足以

收紧和强化膀胱内壁和泌尿道的平滑肌组织，使该草药对某些慢性尿失禁病例有用，但其强度不足以有效

阻止急性尿失禁。出血或炎症的情况。因此，玉米须最好作为治疗慢性泌尿问题的长期药物。玉米须已被

证明可以降低实验动物的血压和血糖水平，并具有利胆和利尿活性。所有这些活动都为解释为什么玉米须

作为一般补肾药特别有效提供了线索。

The effectiveness of fresh silk over dried cannot be overstated, and the best methods of administration involve the

direct feeding of the herb in a low-alcohol liquid base (a strong tea is ideal). Dosage is difficult to generalize because

of the variable nature of genitourinary diseases. But a safe starting point is to use 1 milliliter (about 30 drops or so,

or ¼ teaspoon) of the low-alcohol tincture per 20 pounds of the animal’s body weight, twice daily. If the tincture is

alcohol-free, it can be administered directly into the mouth. If not, it should be no more than 25 percent alcohol and

should then be further diluted with at least an equal amount of water.

新鲜蚕丝干燥后的功效怎么强调都不为过，最好的给药方法是直接将草药放入低酒精液体基质中（浓茶

是理想的选择）。由于泌尿生殖系统疾病的性质不同，剂量很难一概而论。但安全的起点是每 20 磅动物体

重使用 1 毫升（约 30 滴左右，或 1/4 茶匙）低酒精酊剂，每天两次。如果酊剂不含酒精，可以直接送入口

中。如果不是，酒精浓度不应超过 25%，然后至少用等量的水进一步稀释。

To make a tea of the fresh silk, chop it as finely as possible, then steep a heaping tablespoon of the herb in near-

boiling water until the mixture cools. After the tea is strained, it can be fed to the animal—¼ cup (if possible) per 20

pounds of body weight, twice daily. Many herbivores enjoy eating corn silk. This is fine, but remember that if you

want to get an optimum amount of the herb into your animal’s urinary tract, it really needs to be administered as a

liquid.

要用新鲜的丝绸泡茶，请将其尽可能切碎，然后将一大汤匙草药浸泡在接近沸水中，直到混合物冷却。

过滤茶后，可以将其喂给动物——每 20 磅体重 1/4 杯（如果可能），每天两次。许多食草动物喜欢吃玉米

须。这很好，但请记住，如果您想让最佳量的草药进入动物的尿道，那么它确实需要以液体形式施用。

Availability: Finding dried corn silk is easy and several manufacturer’s provide extracts of this herb, but if you want

fresh corn silk, you might have to plant some corn in your herb garden. If you have access to organically raised fresh

corn at your local health food store, you can use the silk from this. However, nonorganic sources of corn silk should

be avoided because the silk has likely been sprayed with a pesticide. Corn silk should look fresh, juicy, and colorful.

If it has turned brown, much of its medicinal activity has diminished.

可用性：找到干燥的玉米须很容易，一些制造商提供这种草药的提取物，但如果您想要新鲜的玉米须，您

可能需要在您的药草园里种植一些玉米。如果您可以在当地的健康食品商店买到有机种植的新鲜玉米，则

可以使用其中的玉米丝。然而，应避免使用非有机来源的玉米丝，因为玉米丝可能喷洒了杀虫剂。玉米须

看起来新鲜、多汁、色彩鲜艳。如果它变成棕色，它的大部分药用活性就会减弱。

Propagation and Harvest: Corn is easy to grow, and dozens of varieties are available to suit virtually any set of

growing conditions. (We live at an elevation of 5,500 feet in Montana, and even we can grow corn.) Harvest your

corn before the silk turns brown—usually in early summer. If you want to eat the corn, make sure that it has an

opportunity to receive pollen from the tassels of the plants for at least a week before you harvest, otherwise your

cobs will have no kernels. Plan to use your fresh silk immediately. Cooled corn silk tea can be stored in the

=== PAGE 151 ===
refrigerator for about a week—a glycerin tincture keeps for at least a year if kept refrigerated.

繁殖和收获：玉米很容易种植，有数十种品种可供选择，几乎可以适应任何生长条件。 （我们生活在蒙大

拿州海拔 5,500 英尺的地方，甚至我们也可以种植玉米。）在玉米丝变成棕色之前收获玉米——通常是在初

夏。如果你想吃玉米，请确保在收获前至少一周，它有机会从植物的雄穗中接收花粉，否则你的玉米棒子

将没有玉米粒。计划立即使用你的新鲜丝绸。冷却的玉米须茶可以在冰箱中保存大约一周，而甘油酊剂如

果冷藏则可以保存至少一年。

Alternatives and Adjuncts: For chronic urinary tract inflammation, corn silk combines well with couch grass,

calendula, or cleavers. If infection is evident, add echinacea, Oregon grape, yarrow, or thyme. For urinary

incontinence, read about Saint-John’s-wort, ginkgo, and uva ursi. To help pass kidney stones, try a half-and-half

combination of corn silk and marshmallow. For use as a kidney tonic, corn silk combines with marshmallow,

hawthorn, ginkgo, or goldenrod. For use in FLUTD, corn silk combines with couch grass, echinacea, marshmallow,

and horsetail.

替代品和辅助品：对于慢性尿路炎症，玉米须与沙发草、金盏花或切肉刀完美结合。如果感染明显，添加

紫锥花、俄勒冈葡萄、西洋蓍草或百里香。对于尿失禁，请阅读有关圣约翰草、银杏和熊果的信息。为了

帮助排出肾结石，可以尝试将玉米丝和棉花糖混合在一起。作为补肾药，玉米须与棉花糖、山楂、银杏或

黄花结合使用。用于 FLUTD 时，玉米须与茅草、紫锥菊、棉花糖和木贼结合。

Zea mays

玉米

Cautions and Comments: Corn silk is known to be safe, but this herb is actually the pollen-receiving part of the

plant. It stands to reason that animals with pollen allergies may have adverse reactions to corn silk. Corn silk has

been shown to stimulate uterine contractions in rabbits and therefore should be used with caution (if at all) in

pregnant animals.

注意事项和评论：众所周知，玉米须是安全的，但这种草本植物实际上是植物接受花粉的部分。按理说，

=== PAGE 152 ===
花粉过敏的动物可能会对玉米须产生不良反应。玉米须已被证明可以刺激兔子的子宫收缩，因此在怀孕的

动物中应谨慎使用（如果有的话）。

=== PAGE 153 ===
COUCH GRASS

沙发草

Agropyron repens

白草

Grass Family

草家族

Appearance: If you are a gardener, you probably already know, and hate, this plant by the name quack grass. Couch

grass (pronounced “cooch grass” in much of Europe, its native birthplace and medicinal origin) is a profusely

common weed in North America. To the untrained eye, Agropyron repens looks like every other waist-high wild

grass—with perhaps the most distinctive exception displayed by its leaves. Each leaf, or blade, of couch grass looks

as though somebody pinched a crimp in it 1 or 2 inches away from the tip. While this does not serve as a definitive

means of identification, it provides a good point from which you can begin the process of ruling out look-alike

grasses in your area, one species at a time. If you wish to gather this plant for medicinal use, find some samples of

what you think might be couch grass, and then take them to your county extension agent, a botanist, or somebody

else who can identify grasses. Unless you are experienced at using a botanical key (a scientific reference used to

identify plants through recognition of their taxonomic features), identifying couch grass is hit or miss. Fortunately,

the look-alike grasses are not toxic—but they’re probably not medicinal.

外观：如果您是一名园丁，您可能已经知道并且讨厌这种名为嘎嘎草的植物。沙发草（在欧洲大部分地区

发音为“coochgras”，是其诞生地和药用来源）是北美一种非常常见的杂草。对于未经训练的人来说，白草

看起来就像其他齐腰高的野草一样——也许最独特的例外是它的叶子。沙发草的每一片叶子看起来都好像

有人在距尖端一两英寸的地方捏了一个卷曲。虽然这并不是一种确定的识别方法，但它提供了一个很好的

起点，您可以从这里开始排除您所在地区的相似草，一次一个物种。如果您希望采集这种植物用于药用，

请找到一些您认为可能是沙发草的样本，然后将它们带到您所在县的推广代理、植物学家或其他可以识别

草的人处。除非您有使用植物学钥匙（用于通过识别植物的分类特征来识别植物的科学参考）的经验，否

则识别沙发草的成功与失败。幸运的是，这些看起来很像的草没有毒，但它们可能没有药用价值。

Habitat and Range: Couch grass is native to the Mediterranean area. It now makes itself at home virtually

everywhere on earth. In North America, expect to find it in areas where livestock grazing, farming, or other human-

related activities have delivered the seeds.

栖息地和范围：沙发草原产于地中海地区。现在，它几乎在地球上的任何地方都安家落户。在北美，预计

会在牲畜放牧、农业或其他人类相关活动提供种子的地区找到它。

Cycle and Bloom Season: An aggressive perennial that reproduces by seed or spreading rhizomes (horizontally

creeping roots)

周期和开花季节：一种侵略性多年生植物，通过种子或传播根茎（水平匍匐根）繁殖

Parts Used: Rhizomes

使用部位：根茎

Primary Medicinal Activities: Antimicrobial, astringent, anti-inflammatory, mild diuretic

主要药用活性：抗菌、收敛、抗炎、轻度利尿

=== PAGE 154 ===
Strongest Affinities: Urinary tract

最强的亲和力：泌尿道

Preparation: Tincture or decoction of the fresh or freshly dried rhizomes. Use fresh leaves as a dietary supplement.

制备：新鲜或新鲜干燥根茎的酊剂或煎剂。使用新鲜叶子作为膳食补充剂。

Common Uses: Historically, many animal lovers have come to know A. repens as dog grass because dogs, cats, and

other animals love eating the fresh spring leaves of the plant. Our dogs are no exception—we have clumps of dog

grass growing in front of our house, and whenever an opportunity arises (one that doesn’t interfere with a game of

Frisbee), our dogs both actively graze on the plants. It’s interesting to watch how they actually differentiate the

couch grass from other grasses in their intuitive drive to eat the plants. But even more interesting is the way our dogs

instinctively use this plant to fulfill special health care needs. Specifically, they eat couch grass to the point of

vomiting, and while humans may find this somewhat disgusting, an inquisitive herbalist with a holistically oriented

mind can clearly see what the animals are doing. They are either using the grass as a digestive cleansing agent or

they are vomiting so they can reingest their stomach contents. The latter may be indicative of poor nutrient

absorption—eating food twice, in effect, allows for more complete absorption of certain nutrients.

常见用途：历史上，许多动物爱好者都知道白茅草是狗草，因为狗、猫和其他动物喜欢吃这种植物在春天

新鲜的叶子。我们的狗也不例外——我们家门前长着一丛狗草，只要有机会（不妨碍玩飞盘游戏），我们

的狗都会积极地吃这些植物。有趣的是，观察它们如何通过直觉来吃植物，从而将沙发草与其他草区分开

来。但更有趣的是我们的狗本能地使用这种植物来满足特殊的医疗保健需求。具体来说，它们吃沙发草直

到呕吐，虽然人类可能会觉得这有点恶心，但具有整体导向思维的好奇草药师可以清楚地看到动物在做什

么。他们要么使用草作为消化清洁剂，要么通过呕吐来重新摄入胃内容物。后者可能表明营养吸收不良

——实际上，吃两次食物可以更完全地吸收某些营养。

The point is this: if your animal eats grass, the grass is likely to fill a nutritional or medicinal need, and such

activities should not be overlooked when assessing your animal’s holistic health—even if you do wish to look away

and forget about it.

要点是：如果您的动物吃草，草很可能会满足营养或药用需求，并且在评估动物的整体健康状况时不应

忽视此类活动 - 即使您确实希望移开视线并忘记它。

As a food, a patch of couch grass provides grazing animals with a rich source of vitamins A and B, iron, rough

fiber, and silica (for healthy bones, hooves, nails, and coat). But most of the medicinal value of couch grass is

contained within the rhizomes of the plant.

作为一种食物，一片茅草可为放牧动物提供丰富的维生素 A 和 B、铁、粗纤维和二氧化硅（用于健康的

骨骼、蹄子、指甲和皮毛）。但茅草的大部分药用价值都包含在植物的根茎中。

Couch grass serves as an excellent tonic and disinfectant for the urinary tract. It is a soothing, anti-inflammatory

demulcent and saponin-based diuretic with mild antimicrobial activity. Couch grass is considered a specific remedy

for chronic or acute cases of cystitis and urethritis, where the root tea or tincture helps to reduce inflammation,

inhibit bacterial reproduction, and lessen pain during urination. It should be noted that although couch grass has

been shown to possess broad antibiotic activity, it may be too weak to be effective against infections that are already

well established. In such cases, couch grass should be combined with stronger antimicrobial herbs such as

echinacea, thyme, or Oregon grape (or certified organic goldenseal—don’t buy wildcrafted goldenseal because the

plant is at risk of becoming extinct).

沙发草是一种极好的泌尿道滋补剂和消毒剂。它是一种舒缓、抗炎镇静剂和皂苷利尿剂，具有温和的抗

菌活性。沙发草被认为是治疗慢性或急性膀胱炎和尿道炎的特效药，其根茶或酊剂有助于减轻炎症、抑制

细菌繁殖并减轻排尿时的疼痛。应该指出的是，尽管沙发草已被证明具有广泛的抗生素活性，但它可能太

弱而无法有效对抗已经确定的感染。在这种情况下，沙发草应与更强的抗菌草本植物结合使用，如紫锥

菊、百里香或俄勒冈葡萄（或经过认证的有机金毛莲——不要购买野生的金毛莲，因为这种植物有灭绝的

危险）。

=== PAGE 155 ===
As a diuretic, couch grass increases the volume of urine by stimulating sodium excretion, helping to wash away

waste materials from the body via the kidneys. This makes couch grass an effective adjunct to a variety of liver-

supporting, alterative herbs (such as dandelion or burdock), especially in the treatment of rheumatism or chronic

skin problems.

作为一种利尿剂，茅草通过刺激钠排泄来增加尿液量，有助于通过肾脏清除体内的废物。这使得沙发草

成为各种护肝替代草药（例如蒲公英或牛蒡）的有效辅助剂，特别是在治疗风湿病或慢性皮肤问题方面。

The demulcent properties of couch grass soothe inflammation, so it can also be used for kidney stones and gravel.

And because couch grass is gentle on the kidneys and seldom irritates the bladder or urethra during long-term use, it

is a primary herb to consider when treating the symptoms of FLUTD in cats, a condition that is usually due to

factors other than infection.

茅草的镇痛特性可以缓解炎症，因此它也可用于治疗肾结石和碎石。由于沙发草对肾脏温和，长期使用

时很少刺激膀胱或尿道，因此它是治疗猫 FLUTD 症状时要考虑的主要草药，这种疾病通常是由感染以外的

因素引起的。

For use in urinary problems, the best way to administer this herb is in the form of a cooled decoction. Make the

decoction by gently simmering a heaping teaspoon of the chopped dried root, or 2 heaping teaspoons of the chopped

fresh root (rhizomes), in 8 ounces of water for about twenty minutes. The decoction can be squirted directly into the

animal’s mouth. A safe starting dose is about a ½ teaspoon (2–3 milliliters) per 20 pounds of the animal’s body

weight, two to three times daily. If direct administration is too difficult, the dose can be added to the animal’s

drinking water. Try to figure out how much your animal drinks, then add enough couch grass to meet dosing

requirements. Glycerin or alcohol tinctures can be used at half the above dosage and are best if diluted into water.

Keep in mind that this is a subtle herbal medicine—the needs and systemic requirements of the animal you are

helping may require several increases in dosage over several days or weeks of administration.

对于泌尿系统问题，服用这种草药的最佳方法是以冷却汤剂的形式。将一茶匙切碎的干根或两茶匙切碎

的新鲜根（根茎）放入 8 盎司水中，轻轻煮约二十分钟，制成汤剂。汤剂可以直接喷入动物的嘴里。安全

的起始剂量约为每 20 磅动物体重 1/2 茶匙（2-3 毫升），每天 2-3 次。如果直接给药太困难，可以将剂量添

加到动物的饮用水中。尝试计算出您的动物喝了多少水，然后添加足够的沙发草以满足剂量要求。甘油或

酒精酊剂的用量可以是上述剂量的一半，最好用水稀释。请记住，这是一种微妙的草药 - 您正在帮助的动

物的需求和系统要求可能需要在几天或几周的给药时间内多次增加剂量。

=== PAGE 156 ===
Agropyron repens

白草

Availability: Couch grass is not a popular herb in the U.S. (although it is popular in Europe), and some of the dried

rhizomes that you find in herb stores are on the verge of becoming useless dust. Fortunately, it grows everywhere.

The only problem is identifying it among other weeds and finding the physical stamina to dig up the stubborn

rhizomes. If you meet these criteria, you can easily become a garden hero in your neighborhood. (On the other hand,

everyone may think you’re nuts for actually wanting the weed.) The golden rule: Beware of pesticides. Finding

“clean” couch grass is often difficult.

可用性：沙发草在美国并不是一种受欢迎的药草（尽管它在欧洲很受欢迎），并且您在药草商店中找到的

一些干燥根茎即将成为无用的灰尘。幸运的是，它到处都有生长。唯一的问题是如何将其与其他杂草区分

开来，并找到足够的体力来挖出顽固的根茎。如果您满足这些标准，您就可以轻松成为附近的花园英雄。

（另一方面，每个人都可能认为你真的想要大麻而疯了。）黄金法则：小心杀虫剂。找到“干净”的沙发草

通常很困难。

Propagation and Harvest: As far as propagating couch grass is concerned, go ahead if you don’t mind sacrificing

the engine on your tiller and if you don’t care if the plant strangles the rest of your garden. The rhizomes can be

harvested anytime throughout the growth season but are usually strongest when dug up in the fall. The best

medicines are made from the fresh rhizomes, but dried roots are useful, too, if used within a year of digging.

繁殖和收获：就繁殖沙发草而言，如果您不介意牺牲耕耘机上的发动机并且不关心植物是否会扼杀花园的

其他部分，请继续。根茎可以在整个生长季节的任何时候收获，但通常在秋季挖出时最强。最好的药物是

用新鲜的根茎制成的，但如果在挖掘后一年内使用，干燥的根也很有用。

Alternatives and Adjuncts: For urinary inflammations that are secondary to infection, combine with Oregon grape,

organically raised goldenseal, thyme, or echinacea. For stones or any other cause of urinary tract inflammation,

marshmallow, corn silk, and plantain are valuable adjuncts. If blood is present in the urine, see your holistic

=== PAGE 157 ===
veterinarian—your pet needs stronger measures than couch grass.

替代品和辅助剂：对于感染继发的泌尿道炎症，可与俄勒冈葡萄、有机饲养的白毛茛、百里香或紫锥菊结

合使用。对于结石或任何其他引起尿路炎症的原因，棉花糖、玉米须和车前草都是有价值的辅助剂。如果

尿液中出现血液，请咨询您的整体兽医——您的宠物需要采取比沙发草更强有力的措施。

Cautions and Comments: No toxicity has been noted for couch grass, although excessive amounts may lead to

vomiting or diarrhea. Always be careful about verifying the cleanliness of the sources of this herb—it is on just

about everybody’s “noxious weed” list, and pesticide residues can remain with the plant for several years.

注意事项和评论：尽管过量可能会导致呕吐或腹泻，但尚未发现沙发草具有毒性。一定要小心验证这种草

药来源的清洁度——它几乎被列在每个人的“有毒杂草”名单上，而且农药残留可能会在植物中残留数年。

=== PAGE 158 ===
DANDELION

蒲公英

Taraxacum officinale

蒲公英

Sunflower Family

向日葵家族

Appearance: It’s time for all good herbalists to put their egos aside. Dandelion is actually confused with several

other species of the sunflower family, and although we may hate to admit it, many of us have been fooled into using

one of the look-alikes. The primary consideration to bear in mind when identifying Taraxacum officinale or any of

its hundreds of variations is this: Dandelion has no branching characteristics but instead grows in a rosette fashion

directly off of its taproot. And dandelion never has spines on its midrib as does Lactuca serriola (prickly lettuce),

which otherwise looks similar to dandelion when young. Although dandelion impostors likely won’t harm you, they

won’t offer you dandelion’s benefits, either.

外观：现在是所有优秀草药师放下自负的时候了。蒲公英实际上与向日葵家族的其他几种物种混淆了，尽

管我们可能不愿意承认这一点，但我们中的许多人都被愚弄了，使用了其中一种看起来很相似的植物。在

识别蒲公英或其数百种变种时要记住的主要考虑因素是：蒲公英没有分枝特征，而是直接从主根上以莲座

状生长。蒲公英的中脉上从来没有像生菜（Lactuca serriola）那样的刺，它在其他方面与蒲公英年轻时看起

来很相似。尽管蒲公英冒名顶替者可能不会伤害您，但他们也不会为您提供蒲公英的好处。

Habitat and Range: A native of Europe and Asia, dandelion has found its way onto every continent—except

maybe Antarctica.

栖息地和分布范围：蒲公英原产于欧洲和亚洲，现已遍布各大洲——也许除了南极洲。

Cycle and Bloom Season: Dandelion is a perennial that may bloom several times throughout the year. In areas

where there is severe winter climate, dandelion may appear only as a free-seeding annual.

周期和开花季节：蒲公英是多年生植物，一年中可能多次开花。在冬季气候严酷的地区，蒲公英可能只能

作为一年生植物自由播种。

Parts Used: All parts of the plant are useful for various applications.

使用的部件：设备的所有部件都可用于各种应用。

Primary Medicinal Activities: Diuretic, stimulates the liver, stimulates salivation and improves digestion (bitter),

nutritive, laxative, anti-inflammatory, tonic

主要药用活性： 利尿、刺激肝脏、刺激唾液分泌和改善消化（苦味）、营养、通便、抗炎、滋补

Strongest Affinities: Liver, gallbladder, gastrointestinal tract

亲和力最强：肝脏、胆囊、胃肠道

Preparation: Water infusion, decoction, tincture, fresh or dried leaves and flowers

制剂：水浸剂、汤剂、酊剂、新鲜或干燥的叶和花

=== PAGE 159 ===
Common Uses: To begin an accurate assessment of dandelion’s deep-reaching medicinal attributes, we must first

put healing into a whole-body perspective. All higher organisms (including dogs, cats, birds, mice, lizards, goats,

and humans) maintain vital body functions within tightly knit parameters of systemic cooperation. A precise and

balanced relationship between nutrition and elimination of waste is a critical part of this cooperation. If a systemic

excess or deficiency occurs that the body cannot correct through elimination, supplementation, or immune system

intervention, it will try to compensate by shutting down a system or storing waste materials wherever it can. In other

words, a state of “dis-ease” results. Enter the dandelion.

常见用途：要开始准确评估蒲公英的深远药用价值，我们必须首先从全身的角度来看待治疗。所有高等生

物（包括狗、猫、鸟类、小鼠、蜥蜴、山羊和人类）都在紧密结合的系统合作参数下维持重要的身体功

能。营养与消除废物之间精确平衡的关系是这种合作的关键部分。如果发生系统性过剩或缺乏，身体无法

通过消除、补充或免疫系统干预来纠正，它会尝试通过关闭系统或尽可能储存废物来进行补偿。换句话

说，结果就是一种“不安”的状态。输入蒲公英。

Dandelion is one of the most complete plant foods on earth. A 1-cup serving of fresh dandelion greens provides as

much as 2,000 international units (IU) of vitamin A (one and a half times the recommended daily allowance [RDA]

for an adult human); 20 percent protein (by content, that’s double what spinach provides); vitamins C, K, D, and B

complex; iron, manganese, phosphorus, and many other trace minerals; and an especially rich supply of potassium.

All of these vital nutrients are conveniently contained within a single source in quantities that the body can fully

absorb. This means that dandelion can gently supplement a diet without overworking the liver and kidneys with

excess vitamins and minerals (which is often signified by dark urine).

蒲公英是地球上最完整的植物性食品之一。 1 杯新鲜蒲公英绿叶蔬菜可提供多达 2,000 国际单位 (IU) 的

维生素 A（成人建议每日摄入量 [RDA] 的一倍半）； 20% 蛋白质（按含量计算，是菠菜的两倍）；复合维

生素 C、K、D 和 B；铁、锰、磷和许多其他微量矿物质；以及特别丰富的钾供应。所有这些重要的营养素

都方便地包含在单一来源中，其数量可以被人体充分吸收。这意味着蒲公英可以温和地补充饮食，而不会

因为过量的维生素和矿物质（这通常以深色尿液为标志）而使肝脏和肾脏过度劳累。

Supplementing your companion animal’s diet with dandelion leaf is as simple as drying the greens and crumbling

them onto her food. If your animal doesn’t like eating dandelion or if you need to get nutrients into her more

quickly, try making a leaf tea using organic unsalted vegetable or meat broth in place of plain water. Plan on feeding

about 1 teaspoon of the dried herb for each 20 pounds of body weight daily. Horses, llamas, sheep, goats, mules, and

other large animals often eat the greens directly out of their pastures. If they don’t, try hand feeding the greens to

them or adding a little molasses. If your animal is sensitive to changes in diet, then start her off with a small amount

of dandelion at a time.

用蒲公英叶补充伴侣动物的饮食非常简单，只需将绿色蔬菜晒干并将其粉碎到她的食物上即可。如果您

的动物不喜欢吃蒲公英，或者您需要更快地为她提供营养，请尝试使用有机无盐蔬菜或肉汤代替白开水制

作叶茶。计划每天每 20 磅体重喂食约 1 茶匙干草药。马、美洲驼、绵羊、山羊、骡子和其他大型动物经常

直接吃牧场上的蔬菜。如果他们不这样做，请尝试用手喂他们蔬菜或添加一点糖蜜。如果您的动物对饮食

变化很敏感，那么开始时一次给她少量的蒲公英。

=== PAGE 160 ===
Taraxacum officinale

蒲公英

In addition to providing your animal with many of the nutrients she needs, the leaves have what herbalists call a

bitter tonic effect: the body’s metabolism is “warmed up” before the digestive system is forced to go to work. When

a small amount of a bitter herb is taken into the mouth, the recipient immediately experiences a sudden increase in

salivation. As the bitter herb reaches the stomach, bile and other digestive agents are then triggered into production.

The result is more efficient digestion, reduced indigestion, better absorption of nutrients, and increased appetite.

Dandelion leaf is particularly useful in animals who have a chronic problem with indigestion. If your animal has

frequent gas or passes food that does not appear digested, get her to chew a fresh dandelion leaf while you

reconsider her diet, or apply a few drops of dandelion tincture (an herbal glycerite is most palatable) onto her

tongue. It does not matter if the animal doesn’t appear to swallow it; the bitter tonic action is triggered in the mouth.

除了为动物提供所需的许多营养之外，叶子还具有草药学家所说的苦味滋补作用：在消化系统被迫开始

工作之前，身体的新陈代谢会“预热”。当少量苦味药草放入口中时，接受者立即会感到唾液突然增加。当

苦味药草到达胃部时，胆汁和其他消化剂就会被触发产生。其结果是更有效的消化，减少消化不良，更好

地吸收营养，并增加食欲。蒲公英叶对于患有慢性消化不良问题的动物特别有用。如果您的动物经常放屁

或排出未消化的食物，请在您重新考虑她的饮食的同时让她咀嚼新鲜的蒲公英叶，或者在她的舌头上滴几

滴蒲公英酊剂（一种草药甘油是最美味的）。即使动物看起来没有吞下它也没关系；苦味的滋补作用在口

腔中触发。

Dandelion is well known among herbalists as a safe but powerful diuretic and liver stimulant. Congestive heart

failure, pulmonary edema, arthritis, gallbladder disease, and kidney stones are all imbalances resulting from the

body’s inability to eliminate water or accumulated excesses. In mainstream practices, drugs such as furosemide are

often used to drain off excess fluid from the body and thus promote the elimination of accumulated waste materials.

Pharmaceutical diuretics are fast acting, easy to administer, and effective, but while they do a great job at expelling

fluid, they tend not to discriminate between what the body needs to keep and what it needs to lose. As a result, the

body often loses too much potassium, a crucial heart and brain nutrient, through urination. In this event, potassium

must be supplemented throughout the therapy. Dandelion leaf, on the other hand, contains its own rich source of

fully assimilable potassium, an attribute that helps to replace what would otherwise be lost through urination.

=== PAGE 161 ===
蒲公英在草药学家中被认为是一种安全而强大的利尿剂和肝脏兴奋剂。充血性心力衰竭、肺水肿、关节

炎、胆囊疾病和肾结石都是由于身体无法排除水分或积聚过量水分而导致的失衡。在主流实践中，经常使

用速尿等药物排出体内多余的液体，从而促进消除累积的废物。药物利尿剂起效快、易于给药且有效，但

虽然它们在排出液体方面做得很好，但它们往往无法区分身体需要保留的东西和需要失去的东西。结果，

身体经常通过排尿失去过多的钾，钾是心脏和大脑的重要营养素。在这种情况下，必须在整个治疗过程中

补充钾。另一方面，蒲公英叶含有丰富的完全可同化钾，这种特性有助于补充通过排尿流失的钾。

How effective is dandelion as a diuretic? Many contemporary herbalists claim that dandelion may be as effective

as the aforementioned furosemide. The big trade-offs, though, are ease of administration, getting enough of the tea

into the animal to bring about desired effects, and the time that it may take for dandelion to start working. While

furosemide can be administered in a little pill, a dandelion therapy involves getting your animal to drink warm tea or

take a tincture extract (the broth method works nicely). None of this is meant to encourage you to stop the diuretic

therapy prescribed by your veterinarian. If you wish to seek the dandelion alternative, see a holistic veterinarian first.

蒲公英作为利尿剂有多有效？许多当代草药学家声称蒲公英可能与前面提到的呋塞米一样有效。然而，

最大的代价是易于管理、让足够的茶进入动物体内以产生预期的效果，以及蒲公英开始发挥作用所需的时

间。虽然速尿可以以小药丸的形式服用，但蒲公英疗法需要让你的动物喝温茶或服用酊剂提取物（肉汤法

效果很好）。这些都不是为了鼓励您停止兽医开出的利尿疗法。如果您想寻求蒲公英的替代品，请先去看

整体兽医。

While dandelion leaves are nutritive and diuretic, the root possesses its own usefulness as a safe, reliable liver

tonic. The liver is the primary filtering organ of the body; it is responsible for removing toxins and excesses from the

blood for elimination via the kidneys. The liver also plays critical roles in digestion through its production of bile,

bilirubin, and various enzymes. If bile ducts in the liver or gallbladder become congested, blocked, or otherwise

diseased to the point of dysfunction, the body invariably suffers one or more toxicity-related imbalances. Such

imbalances may be characterized by symptoms such as jaundice, rheumatoid conditions, eczema, dandruff, or

chronic constipation. And while dandelion leaf tea or tincture may do much toward relieving the symptoms of such

conditions through a nutritive and diuretic action, the root will have more effect on the underlying causes.

蒲公英叶具有营养和利尿作用，而其根也具有作为安全、可靠的肝脏滋补品的用途。肝脏是身体的主要

过滤器官；它负责清除血液中的毒素和多余物质，并通过肾脏消除。肝脏还通过产生胆汁、胆红素和各种

酶在消化中发挥关键作用。如果肝脏或胆囊中的胆管充血、阻塞或以其他方式患病达到功能障碍的程度，

身体总是会遭受一种或多种与毒性相关的失衡。这种失衡的特征可能是黄疸、类风湿病、湿疹、头皮屑或

慢性便秘等症状。虽然蒲公英叶茶或酊剂可能通过营养和利尿作用在缓解此类疾病的症状方面发挥很大作

用，但其根部对根本原因的作用更大。

Dandelion root has a well-validated ability to stimulate bile production and circulation throughout the liver. In one

study involving dogs, researchers observed a three to four times increase in bile production after administration of

dandelion root. The gallbladder, which stores bile from the liver, is also stimulated, causing this small, hollow organ

to contract and release bile into the digestive tract, thus aiding in digestion and acting as a gentle laxative to promote

the elimination of solid waste.

蒲公英根具有经过充分验证的刺激胆汁产生和整个肝脏循环的能力。在一项涉及狗的研究中，研究人员

观察到服用蒲公英根后胆汁分泌量增加了三到四倍。储存来自肝脏的胆汁的胆囊也会受到刺激，导致这个

小的中空器官收缩并将胆汁释放到消化道中，从而帮助消化并充当温和的泻药以促进固体废物的消除。

One of the best features about dandelion root as a liver and gallbladder stimulant is its gentle nature. Unlike many

cholagogue herbs, dandelion does not further irritate an already inflamed condition. In fact, in clinical studies using

an over-the-counter preparation of the root, dandelion was shown to be effective in treating inflammatory diseases of

the liver and gallbladder, including gallstones.

蒲公英根作为肝脏和胆囊兴奋剂的最佳特点之一是其温和的性质。与许多利胆草药不同，蒲公英不会进

一步刺激已经发炎的部位。事实上，在使用蒲公英根的非处方制剂进行的临床研究中，蒲公英被证明可以

有效治疗肝脏和胆囊的炎症性疾病，包括胆结石。

The flowers of dandelion are known by herbalists to be high in lecithin and to have weak but useful analgesic

qualities. Their usefulness as a pain reliever stems from the fact that they don’t contain any salicylates, the alkaloid

compounds found in aspirin that are toxic to cats and may be irritating to the stomach lining. To use the flowers,

infuse a generous handful in a cup of near-boiling water. When the water has darkened as much as possible, it can be

cooled and administered with a dropper: 30–40 drops per 20 pounds of body weight. If this proves to be too difficult

=== PAGE 162 ===
for you and your animal, try drying the flowers and sprinkling them on her food. You shouldn’t expect aspirin-like

effectiveness, but this is a mild painkilling option worth considering.

草药学家知道蒲公英花的卵磷脂含量很高，并且具有微弱但有用的镇痛功效。它们作为止痛药的用途源

于它们不含任何水杨酸盐，这是阿司匹林中发现的生物碱化合物，对猫有毒，可能会刺激胃壁。要使用这

些花，请将大量的花朵注入一杯近沸水中。当水颜色尽可能变深时，可以将其冷却并用滴管给药：每 20 磅

体重 30-40 滴。如果这对您和您的动物来说太困难，请尝试将花晒干并将其撒在她的食物上。你不应该期

望它有像阿司匹林一样的功效，但这是一种值得考虑的温和止痛选择。

Dandelion is perhaps the first herb to consider when optimized digestion and waste elimination is a necessary part

of an herbal therapy. In holistic healing, the body, whether it be human or another kind of animal, should not be

viewed as a collection of individual body systems but as an intricately balanced cooperation of relative components.

From this perspective, it is easy to see how dandelion can serve a positive role in its effort to help the body at what it

is designed to do—stay healthy. The body cannot achieve this goal unless it is able to effectively utilize nutrients

and eliminate waste—and dandelion is here to help.

当优化消化和消除废物是草药疗法的必要组成部分时，蒲公英可能是第一个考虑的草药。在整体治疗

中，身体，无论是人类还是其他动物，不应被视为个体身体系统的集合，而应被视为相关组成部分错综复

杂的平衡合作。从这个角度来看，很容易看出蒲公英如何发挥积极作用，帮助身体实现其应有的目标——

保持健康。除非身体能够有效利用营养并消除废物，否则无法实现这一目标，而蒲公英可以提供帮助。

Availability: Everywhere!

可用性：无处不在！

Propagation and Harvest: If you wish to propagate dandelion (no, we’re not insane), give the plants deep humus-

rich soil and full sun. Gather dandelion greens for use in salads in early spring—they get bitter with age. Leaves

intended for herbal teas and medicines can be gathered anytime in dry weather. Wet dandelion leaves tend to

develop mold while they are drying, so don’t wash them after picking. Shake them off and dry them on newspapers

in a well-ventilated area, away from light. Then stir them often to prevent molding and store them in plastic bags

only after they are completely crispy dry. Gather the roots as late in fall as possible; this is when they contain the

greatest concentration of beneficial constituents. Chop them up (we use a food processor), then spread them onto

newspaper and dry with the same consideration you gave to the leaves.

繁殖和收获：如果您想繁殖蒲公英（不，我们没有疯），请为植物提供深厚的富含腐殖质的土壤和充足的

阳光。在早春收集蒲公英叶用于沙拉——随着时间的推移它们会变得苦涩。用于花草茶和药物的叶子可以

在干燥的天气里随时采集。湿的蒲公英叶子在干燥时容易发霉，所以采摘后不要清洗。将它们抖落并放在

报纸上晾干，放在通风良好、避光的地方。然后经常搅拌以防止发霉，待完全酥脆干燥后才将其存放在塑

料袋中。秋天尽可能晚地收集根部；这是它们含有最大浓度的有益成分的时候。将它们切碎（我们使用食

品加工机），然后将它们铺在报纸上并以与叶子相同的方式干燥。

Alternatives and Adjuncts: For liver and digestive problems, consider milk thistle, burdock, yellow dock,

marshmallow, chickweed, and Oregon grape as possible adjuncts or alternatives.

替代品和辅助品：对于肝脏和消化问题，可以考虑将奶蓟草、牛蒡、黄坞、棉花糖、繁缕和俄勒冈葡萄作

为可能的辅助品或替代品。

Cautions and Comments: The first and foremost consideration in using dandelion as food or medicine is the

cleanliness of the plants you are using. Always make sure that the greens you are feeding have never been sprayed

with herbicide. If they ever have, don’t try washing them. Move on to another patch. You won’t have trouble finding

more.

注意事项和评论：使用蒲公英作为食品或药物时首要考虑的是您所使用的植物的清洁度。始终确保您喂的

蔬菜从未喷洒过除草剂。如果有的话，不要尝试清洗它们。转到另一个补丁。您不会有困难找到更多。

=== PAGE 163 ===
DILL

莳萝

Anethum graveolens

香叶草

Parsley Family

欧芹家族

Appearance: A healthy dill plant is an attractive addition to any herb garden. Plants may reach 6 feet in height. The

dark green finely divided leaves have a delicate feathery appearance, and the yellow umbel (umbrella-like) flowers

are attractive to bees. The entire plant is distinctively aromatic and delicious—just brushing past one can make your

mouth water!

外观：健康的莳萝植物对于任何药草园来说都是有吸引力的补充。植物高度可达 6 英尺。深绿色的细裂叶

子具有精致的羽毛状外观，黄色的伞状花对蜜蜂有吸引力。整株植物香气独特，味道鲜美，一粒擦过就让

人垂涎欲滴！

Habitat and Range: Originally a native of southeast Europe and southwest Asia, dill is a common resident in herb

gardens worldwide.

栖息地和分布范围：莳萝原产于东南欧和西南亚，是世界各地药草园的常见居民。

Cycle and Bloom Season: An annual that blooms in early to midsummer, dill is successful at reproducing from the

copious quantities of viable seed it produces shortly after blooming.

周期和开花季节：莳萝是一种在初夏至仲夏开花的一年生植物，开花后不久就会产生大量有活力的种子，

能够成功地进行繁殖。

Parts Used: Foliage, flowers, and seeds

使用部分：叶子、花和种子

Primary Medicinal Activities: Expels intestinal gas, soothes the stomach (stomachic), stimulates milk production,

antibacterial, diuretic

主要药用活性： 排出肠道气体，舒缓胃（胃），刺激产奶，抗菌，利尿

Strongest Affinities: Digestive tract

最强的亲和力：消化道

Preparation: Feeding of the fresh or dried herb, tea, tincture, poultice

准备：喂食新鲜或干燥的药草、茶、酊剂、膏剂

Common Uses: Dill is good for relieving nausea and flatulence, especially when these maladies are secondary to a

sudden change in diet—such as when your puppy decides to steal a tamale from your foolishly unattended dinner

=== PAGE 164 ===
plate. The effectiveness of dill in this capacity is largely attributable to the plant’s numerous volatile oil constituents,

which combine to cause an antifoaming action in the stomach, like many over-the-counter antigas remedies. The

highest concentrations of these oils are held within the seeds of the plant, but the dried leaves and stems (the herb

you likely have in the kitchen) can be used too. If your dog is belching something that is suspiciously reminiscent of

what was supposed to be your dinner and the problem appears to be getting progressively worse, try direct-feeding

2–8 ounces of cooled dill seed tea (1 teaspoon of dill seed to 8 ounces of water) to the animal. If your animal doesn’t

like the flavor, try adding the tea to her drinking water—or, if need be, disguise it as “yummy people food” by

making the tea with some clear, unsalted broth instead of water. If belching, bloating, or other forms of indigestion

are a problem after every feeding, call a holistic veterinarian and reassess your animal’s diet. Think holistically—a

sprinkling of ground dill seed on your pet’s food may bring about symptomatic relief, but if the condition is

ongoing, a deeper problem needs to be addressed.

常见用途：莳萝有助于缓解恶心和胀气，尤其是当这些疾病是由于饮食突然改变而继发时，例如当您的小

狗决定从您愚蠢的无人看管的餐盘中偷走玉米粉蒸肉时。莳萝的这种功效很大程度上归功于该植物中的大

量挥发油成分，这些成分结合在一起会在胃中产生消泡作用，就像许多非处方抗胃气药物一样。这些油的

最高浓度存在于植物的种子中，但也可以使用干燥的叶子和茎（厨房里可能有的药草）。如果您的狗打嗝

的东西可疑地让人想起您应该吃的晚餐，并且问题似乎越来越严重，请尝试直接喂食 2-8 盎司冷却的莳萝

籽茶（1 茶匙莳萝籽到 8 盎司）水）给动物。如果你的动物不喜欢这种味道，可以尝试将茶添加到她的饮用

水中，或者，如果需要的话，用一些清澈的、无盐的肉汤代替水来泡茶，将其伪装成“美味的人类食物”。

如果每次喂食后出现打嗝、腹胀或其他形式的消化不良问题，请致电整体兽医并重新评估您的动物的饮

食。从整体上考虑——在宠物的食物上撒上磨碎的莳萝籽可能会缓解症状，但如果这种情况持续存在，则

需要解决更深层次的问题。

In addition to providing relief from excess gas, dill also possesses antibacterial qualities that are strong enough to

inhibit bacterial reproduction in the mouth but too weak to compromise beneficial microbes deeper in the digestive

tract. This makes dill useful for treating halitosis and the early onset of gingivitis in dogs and cats. The herb or seeds

can be infused and added to drinking water, or a poultice or glycerin tincture can be swabbed on the animal’s gum

line two or three times daily.

除了缓解多余气体外，莳萝还具有抗菌特性，其强度足以抑制口腔中的细菌繁殖，但又不足以损害消化

道深处的有益微生物。这使得莳萝可用于治疗狗和猫的口臭和早期牙龈炎。可以将草药或种子浸泡并添加

到饮用水中，或者可以将药膏或甘油酊剂擦拭在动物的牙龈线上，每天两到三次。

Dill is useful for treating mild to moderate cases of colic. If they will take it, horses and other large herbivores can

be fed the seeds or even the entire fresh plant—as much as they need.

莳萝可用于治疗轻度至中度绞痛。如果他们愿意的话，马和其他大型食草动物就可以根据需要喂食种子

甚至整个新鲜植物。

Dill seed contains carvone, anethofuran, and limonene, volatile oils that have been shown to increase the

production of cancer-fighting enzymes (namely, glutathione s-transferase, or GST) in the body. These enzymes react

with certain types of carcinogenic chemicals, eliminating them from the system. While this in itself represents only a

small measure of cancer prevention, it makes dill another medicinal food to consider when custom-tailoring your

animal’s diet plan. While dill contains limonene, a substance known to repel fleas, its presence is not large enough

to be of use by itself.

莳萝籽含有香芹酮、茴香呋喃和柠檬烯，这些挥发油已被证明可以增加体内抗癌酶（即谷胱甘肽 s-转移

酶，或 GST）的产生。这些酶与某些类型的致癌化学物质发生反应，将其从系统中消除。虽然这本身只代

表了预防癌症的一小部分，但它使莳萝成为在定制动物饮食计划时值得考虑的另一种药用食品。虽然莳萝

含有柠檬烯，一种已知可以驱除跳蚤的物质，但它的存在量不足以单独使用。

The carvone that dill contains, however, is believed to increase the effectiveness of various other natural

insecticides (such as those contained in feverfew or oxeye daisy), making dill a useful adjunct in the never-ending

battle against fleas. Dill has a folkloric reputation as a substance that stimulates the production of milk in nursing

mothers.

然而，莳萝所含的香芹酮被认为可以提高各种其他天然杀虫剂（例如小白菊或牛眼菊中所含的杀虫剂）

的效力，使莳萝成为与跳蚤永无休止的战斗中的有用辅助剂。莳萝在民间享有盛誉，因为它是一种刺激哺

乳母亲产奶的物质。

=== PAGE 165 ===
Availability: The grocery store or your favorite nursery

可用性：杂货店或您最喜欢的托儿所

Propagation and Harvest: Dill is easy to grow from seed or starts and can be seeded in fall for an early spring

harvest in areas where winters are harsh. In areas where the growing season is long but not too hot, a continuous

self-seeding crop of dill is not only possible but perhaps inevitable. Harvest the leaves and flowers when they are

lush and aromatic, the seeds shortly after they have turned brown, before they begin to fall to the ground. This is

best accomplished by clipping off the entire umbel, then shaking the seeds into a paper bag.

繁殖和收获：莳萝很容易从种子或开始生长，可以在秋季播种，以便在冬季严酷的地区早春收获。在生长

季节长但不太热的地区，莳萝连续自播种不仅是可能的，而且可能是不可避免的。当叶子和花朵茂盛且芳

香四溢时收获，种子在它们变成棕色后不久、在开始掉落地面之前收获。最好的方法是剪掉整个伞形花

序，然后将种子摇晃到纸袋中。

Alternatives and Adjuncts: For gas and other digestive problems, dill combines with fennel, parsley seed, or

catnip. For infections of the mouth, Oregon grape, sage, and thyme are stronger options. For bad breath, a

combination of parsley, dill, and peppermint makes an excellent formula. For fleas, try making a skin and coat rinse

by combining dill, feverfew flowers, and yarrow into a tea.

替代品和辅助剂：对于胀气和其他消化问题，莳萝与茴香、欧芹籽或猫薄荷结合使用。对于口腔感染，俄

勒冈葡萄、鼠尾草和百里香是更好的选择。对于口臭，欧芹、莳萝和薄荷的组合是一个很好的配方。对于

跳蚤，可以尝试将莳萝、小白菊花和西洋蓍草混合到茶中来冲洗皮肤和皮毛。

Anethum graveolens

香叶草

=== PAGE 166 ===
Cautions and Comments: Dill is safe but because of its volatile oil constituents, dill should be used conservatively

in pregnant or lactating animals.

注意事项和评论：莳萝是安全的，但由于其挥发油成分，莳萝在怀孕或哺乳期动物中应保守使用。

=== PAGE 167 ===
ECHINACEA

紫锥菊

Echinacea spp.

紫锥菊属

Sunflower Family

向日葵家族

Appearance: Echinacea, also known as purple, pink, or white coneflower, is a taprooted perennial that may grow as

high as 40 inches. Nine species of Echinacea are native to North America; all have flowers with distinctive conelike

central disks, with the most common species ranging in color from pale to dark purple. The rays of most species

droop away from the disk when mature. Echinacea purpurea (see photo) is by far the most widely distributed

species in North America. For several decades, this species has been popular as a medicinal herb and garden flower.

Dozens of varieties of E. purpurea have been developed, and it is estimated that the entire world market supply of

this species comes from cultivated plants. Several other species, however, such as E. angustifolia and E. pallida are

quickly succumbing to commercial and environmental pressures.

外观：紫锥菊，也称为紫色、粉色或白色金光菊，是一种直根多年生植物，可长至 40 英寸高。九种紫锥菊

原产于北美；它们的花都有独特的圆锥形中央花盘，最常见的品种颜色从浅紫色到深紫色不等。大多数物

种的射线在成熟时会从圆盘下垂。紫锥菊（见照片）是迄今为止北美分布最广泛的物种。几十年来，该物

种一直作为药草和园林花卉而广受欢迎。已开发出数十个 E. purpurea 品种，估计该品种的整个世界市场供

应均来自栽培植物。然而，其他几种物种，例如 E. angustifolia 和 E. pallida，很快就屈服于商业和环境压

力。

Habitat and Range: In the West, echinacea is largely an introduced plant. Partial to open plains and woodlands, its

natural range once extended from eastern Canada southward into the Ozarks and westward throughout the corn belt

states to the east slopes of the Rockies. Market pressures and continuing loss of habitat have eliminated most of the

wild stands of echinacea. Its range continues to shrink, and today only small isolated populations of wild echinacea

survive west of the Missouri River.

栖息地和分布范围：在西方，紫锥菊主要是引进植物。其自然范围部分为开阔的平原和林地，曾从加拿大

东部向南延伸至奥沙克山脉，向西穿过玉米种植带各州直至落基山脉东坡。市场压力和栖息地的持续丧失

已经消灭了大部分野生紫锥菊。它的分布范围持续缩小，如今只有少量孤立的野生紫锥菊种群在密苏里河

以西生存。

Cycle and Bloom Season: A perennial that blooms in early to late summer, depending on climate

周期和开花季节：多年生植物，根据气候在初夏至夏末开花

Parts Used: Most often the root is used. The leaves, stems, and flowers are useful too, although they are much

weaker medicine.

使用的部分：最常用的是根。叶子、茎和花也很有用，尽管它们的药力要弱得多。

Primary Medicinal Activities: Immunostimulant, antimicrobial

主要药用活性：免疫增强剂、抗菌剂

=== PAGE 168 ===
Strongest Affinities: Immune system, lymph system, urinary tract

最强的亲和力：免疫系统、淋巴系统、泌尿道

Preparation: Tincture, decoction, dried and powdered root, or direct feeding of the fresh leaves, stems, and flowers

制备方法：酊剂、煎剂、根干研粉，或鲜叶、茎、花直接饲喂

Common Uses: First and foremost, echinacea is an immune-supporting herb—it serves to support intact immune

functions through stimulatory and strengthening actions at various levels within the body. No single constituent

contained in the root or flowering upper parts of echinacea can be attributed to the immune-tonifying functions of

this plant. Instead, most herbalists agree that the complex structure of this plant should be viewed as a therapeutic

synergy of dozens of biochemical influences. However, a few key elements stand out as strong clues to exactly how

echinacea works.

常见用途：首先，紫锥菊是一种免疫支持草药——它通过刺激和加强体内各个层面的作用来支持完整的免

疫功能。紫锥花的根部或开花上部所含的任何单一成分都不能归因于该植物的免疫增强功能。相反，大多

数草药学家都认为这种植物的复杂结构应被视为数十种生化影响的治疗协同作用。然而，有几个关键元素

脱颖而出，成为了解紫锥花到底如何发挥作用的有力线索。

A great deal of scientific research has identified echinacea’s most influential immunostimulatory components as

an extensive array of caffeic acids, volatile oils, polysaccharides, polyenes, polyines, and isobutylamides. In simpler

terms, echinacea’s immunostimulatory qualities are derived from a wide array of chemical compounds that allow the

plant to be used in a variety of forms without sacrificing its effectiveness. For instance, while many of the acid

constituents in echinacea are poorly water soluble and require a strong alcohol base to extract them into a tincture

form, the plant’s polysaccharide constituents are exactly the opposite—they are easily extracted into water—and, in

fact, they are largely destroyed by alcohol. Since both of these chemical groups have been shown to possess very

strong immunostimulatory qualities, it would appear that the plant is naturally designed to accommodate a wide

variety of metabolic needs.

大量科学研究已确定紫锥菊最有影响力的免疫刺激成分是多种咖啡酸、挥发油、多糖、多烯、多胺和异

丁酰胺。简而言之，紫锥菊的免疫刺激特性源自多种化合物，这些化合物使该植物能够以多种形式使用，

而不会牺牲其有效性。例如，虽然紫锥菊中的许多酸性成分水溶性差，需要强醇碱才能将它们提取成酊剂

形式，但该植物的多糖成分却恰恰相反，它们很容易提取到水中，而且事实上，它们大部分被酒精破坏。

由于这两个化学基团已被证明具有非常强的免疫刺激特性，因此该植物似乎天生就可以满足多种代谢需

求。

Echinacea serves to support disease resistance in several ways. At the blood level, it accelerates phagocytosis, the

means by which macrophages and other antibodies attack and remove bacteria. At cellular levels, echinacea helps to

reduce the production of an enzyme that breaks down hyaluronic acid, the compound that occurs between cells to

bind them together. Eliminating this enzyme at the onset of an infection is believed to make body tissues less

pervious to invading microbes and, in turn, the invaders more vulnerable to scavenging antibodies that have already

been stimulated into action. Echinacea has also been shown to stimulate the lymph system, thus helping the body to

eliminate waste materials from the tissues. And it possesses measurable antimicrobial qualities that assist the body’s

fight against infection by intervening with bacteria at the point of invasion.

紫锥菊以多种方式支持疾病抵抗力。在血液水平上，它加速吞噬作用，巨噬细胞和其他抗体通过吞噬作

用攻击和清除细菌。在细胞水平上，紫锥菊有助于减少分解透明质酸的酶的产生，透明质酸是细胞之间产

生的将细胞结合在一起的化合物。据信，在感染开始时消除这种酶可以使身体组织对入侵微生物的渗透性

降低，反过来，入侵者更容易受到已经被刺激发挥作用的抗体的清除作用。紫锥菊还被证明可以刺激淋巴

系统，从而帮助身体清除组织中的废物。它具有可测量的抗菌特性，可以通过在细菌入侵时进行干预来帮

助人体抵抗感染。

Echinacea’s multidirectional means of immune system support, its primary usefulness, depends on a healthy

immune system. Without a healthy population of unencumbered antibodies to work with, echinacea’s capacity to

fight infection is limited to its simple, and less-than-impressive, antiseptic actions. This means that timing is critical

=== PAGE 169 ===
to echinacea’s effectiveness—this herb should be taken at the first onset of infectious symptoms, otherwise its

activity will amount to a losing battle fought against microbial opponents that have already fortified their positions

within the animal’s body.

紫锥菊对免疫系统的多向支持及其主要用途取决于健康的免疫系统。如果没有健康的不受阻碍的抗体群

体，紫锥花抵抗感染的能力就仅限于其简单且不那么令人印象深刻的抗菌作用。这意味着时机对于紫锥菊

的有效性至关重要——这种草药应该在感染症状第一次出现时服用，否则它的活性将等于与已经在动物体

内巩固地位的微生物对手进行一场失败的战斗。

Learn to recognize minute variances in your animal’s behavior and feeding habits. Take extra time to give your

pet a cursory examination during your daily grooming session or playtimes, and look for anything that may point to

the introduction of an infection—an inflamed gum, a swollen fleabite, or a slightly runny nose may be indicators for

the proactive use of echinacea. If you are too late and an infection has set in, it’s time to consider calling in some

other troops from the herbal army. Don’t despair. Try boosting echinacea with a small percentage of an antiseptic

herb such as Oregon grape, usnea, or organically grown goldenseal. By combining echinacea with about 10 percent

by weight or volume of one of these other herbs, you will be offering a small measure of direct antiseptic

intervention without compromising populations of the beneficial microbes the body needs in its fight. Applying

antiseptics topically, directly onto the point of infection, also aids in the healing effort.

学会识别动物行为和饮食习惯的微小差异。在日常梳理或玩耍时，花额外的时间对你的宠物进行一次粗

略的检查，并寻找任何可能表明感染的迹象——牙龈发炎、跳蚤肿胀或轻微流鼻涕可能是感染的迹象。积

极使用紫锥菊。如果你来得太晚并且感染已经开始，那么是时候考虑从草药大军中召集其他一些部队了。

不要绝望。尝试用少量的防腐药草（如俄勒冈葡萄、松萝或有机种植的毛茛）来增强紫锥花的效果。通过

将紫锥菊与按重量或体积计约 10% 的其他草药之一结合起来，您将提供少量的直接防腐干预，而不会损害

身体在战斗中所需的有益微生物群。直接在感染点局部涂抹抗菌剂也有助于治愈。

So how much echinacea should you give, for how long, and in what form? Many people think that the potency of

an echinacea preparation can be determined by the intensity of the tingling sensation it causes when placed on the

tongue. If this is your current method of judging echinacea preparations, please abandon it. A great deal of recent

and continuing research has shown that the isobutylamides responsible for this sensation represent only a fragment

of echinacea’s active constituents and that their absence may not affect the overall effectiveness of echinacea. The

more we learn about echinacea, the more complex and diverse its medicinal actions seem to be.

那么，您应该给予多少紫锥菊、给予多长时间以及以什么形式呢？许多人认为紫锥菊制剂的效力可以通

过其放在舌头上时引起的刺痛感的强度来确定。如果这是您目前判断紫锥菊制剂的方法，请放弃它。最近

和持续进行的大量研究表明，产生这种感觉的异丁基酰胺仅代表紫锥菊活性成分的一小部分，它们的缺失

可能不会影响紫锥菊的整体功效。我们对紫锥菊了解得越多，它的药用作用似乎就越复杂和多样。

There is no best kind of echinacea preparation per se. As long as care and quality have gone into its propagation,

its harvest, and the manufacture of the end product, all echinacea preparations contain adequate medicinal

constituents. The question of what preparation to use internally in your animal hinges on how easy or difficult it is to

get a therapeutic quantity into the animal. Echinacea is by no means a good-tasting herb, and its administration is

complicated by the fact that dogs and cats have short digestive tracks and fast metabolic rates. In these animals, the

problem isn’t finding a preparation that contains high enough concentrations of active constituents but finding one

that is both palatable and fully assimilable by their short digestive tracts. Cats in particular don’t like alcohol and the

sour tingle that alcohol extracts impart on the tongue. (They typically foam at the mouth and sometimes act as if you

are force-feeding them a vile, poisonous fluid.) Dogs typically drink from toilets without complaint and are

somewhat less picky, and since gel capsules often pass directly through them undigested, we prefer to use low-

alcohol glycerin extracts for our carnivores. Glycerin-based preparations are low in tongue-tingling isobutylamides

but rich in readily available polysaccharide constituents, and the sweet taste of the vegetable glycerin helps mask the

unpleasant flavor of the herb.

本身没有最好的紫锥菊制剂。只要在其繁殖、收获和最终产品的制造过程中都经过精心呵护和质量保

证，所有紫锥菊制剂都含有足够的药用成分。在动物体内使用什么制剂的问题取决于将治疗剂量输入动物

体内的难易程度。紫锥菊绝不是一种味道好的草药，而且由于狗和猫的消化道短、新陈代谢速度快，因此

其给药也很复杂。对于这些动物来说，问题不在于找到一种含有足够高浓度活性成分的制剂，而在于找到

一种既可口又可被其短消化道完全吸收的制剂。猫尤其不喜欢酒精和酒精提取物给舌头带来的酸刺痛感。

（它们通常会口吐白沫，有时表现得就像你在强行给它们喂食一种肮脏的有毒液体一样。）狗通常毫无怨

=== PAGE 170 ===
言地从厕所里喝水，而且不太挑剔，而且由于凝胶胶囊通常未经消化就直接通过它们，我们我们的肉食动

物更喜欢使用低醇甘油提取物。以甘油为基础的制剂中令人舌头刺痛的异丁基酰胺含量较低，但富含容易

获得的多糖成分，植物甘油的甜味有助于掩盖草药的难闻味道。

Herbivores are naturally designed to efficiently metabolize plant materials; horses, goats, llamas, and other large

animals can be fed the flowering plants, or dried root can be added to their feed.

食草动物天生就能够有效地代谢植物物质；马、山羊、美洲驼和其他大型动物可以用开花植物喂养，或

者可以将干根添加到饲料中。

Dosage and duration of use vary based upon the needs and individual nuances of the animal, but a conservative

rule for dogs and cats is to give 12–25 drops of the tincture three times daily. Horses, cattle, sheep, and other large

animals can be fed a couple of handfuls of the dried whole flowering herb per day. Several high-quality powdered

echinacea preparations are now available for equines and other large animals as well. Use them as directed by your

veterinarian or as suggested on the label.

剂量和使用时间根据动物的需要和个体差异而有所不同，但对于狗和猫来说，保守的规则是每天 3 次，

每次 12-25 滴酊剂。马、牛、羊和其他大型动物每天可以喂几把干燥的全花草本植物。现在有几种高质量

的紫锥菊粉制剂也可用于马和其他大型动物。按照兽医的指示或标签上的建议使用它们。

In recent years, a rather heated controversy has arisen within the herbalist community concerning how long

echinacea can be used before the body builds a tolerance to its immune-stimulating actions. In a German study

conducted in 1989, a diminished response to echinacea was recorded in human subjects after five to ten days of

normal dose administration. This result raised questions of whether echinacea is effective when used over the long

term. Closer scrutiny of this study, however, has since led to the conclusion that while echinacea’s activity does fall

off sharply after about five days of use, its long-term use still maintains a level of immune system activity higher

than that observed prior to its initial administration. Many herbalists believe that breaking the continuity of

echinacea use every five to ten days allows for a greater immune boost each time the therapy is reestablished after a

two- or three-day respite. We agree and believe that a break is necessary, in any case, to monitor the unassisted

recovery of the animal. Five days on, two or three days off is a good guideline to follow.

近年来，草药界内部出现了一场相当激烈的争论，即在身体对其免疫刺激作用产生耐受性之前，紫锥菊

可以使用多长时间。 1989 年德国进行的一项研究显示，人类受试者在服用正常剂量五到十天后，对紫锥菊

的反应减弱。这一结果引发了紫锥菊长期使用是否有效的问题。然而，对这项研究的更仔细的审查得出的

结论是，虽然紫锥菊的活性在使用大约五天后确实急剧下降，但长期使用它仍然保持了高于首次使用之前

观察到的免疫系统活性水平。行政。许多草药医生认为，每五到十天中断一次紫锥菊的使用，每次在两三

天的休息后重新开始治疗时，都可以增强免疫能力。我们同意并相信，无论如何，休息是必要的，以监测

动物的独立康复情况。工作五天，休息两三天是一个很好的遵循准则。

Aside from its immune-stimulating qualities, echinacea is a good antimicrobial for the mouth and urinary tract. It

is useful for treating bacterial or fungal infections of the bladder and urethra, especially when added to a demulcent

and anti-inflammatory combination of herbs. Echinacea also has a long-standing reputation as a snakebite remedy.

Used internally and externally simultaneously, the herb is said to antidote the venom. Although little scientific

evidence exists to support such claims, hundreds of years’ worth of use amounts to more than folkloric trivia.

Knowing that about 85 percent of rattlesnake bites involve only a partial injection of venom (or no injection at all), it

is likely that echinacea serves more to ward off infection and prevent tissue damage than to actually nullify the

venom. Echinacea relieves the pain and swelling of most insect bites and stings, especially when applied as a clay

poultice.

除了其免疫刺激特性外，紫锥菊还是口腔和泌尿道的良好抗菌剂。它可用于治疗膀胱和尿道的细菌或真

菌感染，特别是当添加到缓和和抗炎草药组合中时。紫锥菊作为治疗蛇咬伤的药物也享有盛誉。据说这种

草药可以同时内服和外用，可以解毒。尽管几乎没有科学证据支持这种说法，但数百年的使用价值不仅仅

是民俗琐事。据了解，大约 85% 的响尾蛇咬伤只涉及部分毒液注射（或根本不注射），紫锥菊很可能更多

地用于抵御感染和防止组织损伤，而不是真正消除毒液。紫锥菊可以缓解大多数昆虫叮咬和蜇伤的疼痛和

肿胀，尤其是作为粘土膏剂使用时。

Echinacea is also used with some success for colic in horses, with free-feeding of the fresh leaves, stems, and

flowers being the most popular method of administration.

紫锥菊在治疗马绞痛方面也取得了一些成功，自由喂养新鲜的叶子、茎和花是最流行的给药方法。

=== PAGE 171 ===
Availability: Various preparations of echinacea are widely available through health product retailers. The seeds and

plants are available through most nurseries. Because of continuing overharvest, wild stands of this plant are at risk

of disappearing forever. Please make sure that the echinacea you are using is from cultivated sources.

可获得性：各种紫锥菊制剂可通过保健品零售商广泛购买。大多数苗圃都可以提供种子和植物。由于持续

的过度采伐，这种植物的野生种群面临着永远消失的危险。请确保您使用的紫锥菊来自栽培来源。

Propagation and Harvest: Echinacea purpurea, the primary echinacea of commerce, is easy to grow and requires

little care once the plants are established. Seeds require cold, damp stratification and light to break their dormancy.

This means that the seeds must be sown on top of the soil or covered with just a trace of soil in order to germinate.

Roots must be at least three years old to be of medicinal value. The plants are hardy and drought tolerant when

mature. A well-established stand of echinacea reseeds itself, and mature plants can bear roots of up to 3 pounds

each.

繁殖和收获：紫锥菊是主要的商业紫锥菊，很容易生长，一旦植物定植后几乎不需要照顾。种子需要寒

冷、潮湿的层积和光照来打破休眠。这意味着种子必须播种在土壤顶部或仅覆盖少量土壤才能发芽。根必

须至少三年才能具有药用价值。这些植物成熟时耐寒、耐旱。成熟的紫锥菊可以自行重新播种，成熟的植

物每根可生出重达 3 磅的根。

Varieties such as E. pallida and E. angustifolia are much more finicky. Before you choose to grow them, bear in

mind that despite what herbalists once thought, the gardener-friendly E. purpurea provides medicine that is as potent

as these other species.

E. pallida 和 E. angustifolia 等品种更加挑剔。在您选择种植它们之前，请记住，尽管草药学家曾经认为如

此，但对园丁友好的紫紫桉提供的药物与其他物种一样有效。

Dig mature echinacea roots from the garden after the plant has gone dormant for the winter, following its third

year of growth. The roots can be chopped and tinctured while fresh or dried and ground for use in teas. The dried

roots can be tinctured as well.

在植物生长第三年后进入冬季休眠状态后，从花园中挖出成熟的紫锥菊根。根可以在新鲜时切碎和酊

剂，也可以干燥并磨碎用于泡茶。干燥的根也可以酊剂。

Leaves, stems, and flowers can be selectively harvested when they are in full bloom in midsummer. If you opt to

do this, bear in mind that a preponderance of leaves and flowers must remain on the plants to provide life support for

the roots and to produce viable seeds.

叶、茎、花盛夏盛开时可选择性采收。如果您选择这样做，请记住，植物上必须保留大量的叶子和花

朵，以便为根部提供生命支持并产生有活力的种子。

=== PAGE 172 ===
Echinacea purpurea

紫松果菊

Alternatives and Adjuncts: Virtually any of the alterative, diuretic, cholagogue, or expectorant herbs combine well

with echinacea to support the body during microbial infections. To help fight infections of the mouth, digestive tract,

or urinary tract, echinacea serves as an excellent adjunct to Oregon grape or couch grass. As a lymphatic, echinacea

combines well with cleavers.

替代品和辅助品：实际上，任何替代药、利尿药、利胆药或祛痰药草都可以与紫锥菊很好地结合起来，在

微生物感染期间为身体提供支持。为了帮助对抗口腔、消化道或泌尿道感染，紫锥菊是俄勒冈葡萄或茅草

的绝佳辅助品。作为一种淋巴管，紫锥菊与切肉刀结合得很好。

Cautions and Comments: Echinacea is a very safe herb. But remember, echinacea can only be expected to support

a healthy immune system. If the animal is malnourished or immune-compromised by preexisting disease or by other

factors, you should consider dietary changes and/or other measures that feed and support the immune system before

jumping into Echinacea therapy. Before using echinacea, it is a good idea to consult a holistic veterinarian—

especially if you are uncertain of your animal’s level of disease resistance.

注意事项和评论：紫锥菊是一种非常安全的草药。但请记住，紫锥菊只能支持健康的免疫系统。如果动物

因先前存在的疾病或其他因素而营养不良或免疫受损，您应该在开始紫锥菊治疗之前考虑改变饮食和/或其

他喂养和支持免疫系统的措施。在使用紫锥菊之前，最好咨询整体兽医，尤其是当您不确定动物的抗病能

力时。

=== PAGE 173 ===
ELECAMPANE

土木香

Inula helenium

旋覆花

Sunflower Family

向日葵家族

Appearance: Elecampane is a stout, impressive plant. Healthy specimens may grow in excess of 6 feet high. We

have seen these plants in tightly clustered hedgelike stands so thick that one cannot see daylight through them. The

narrowly lance-shaped leaves may exceed 16 inches in length and 4 inches in width. The daisylike flowers may

reach 4 inches in diameter, are burnt orange, and have narrow rays that contrast with the robust overall appearance

of the plant—a splendid addition to any herb or flower garden!

外观：土木香是一种粗壮、令人印象深刻的植物。健康的标本可能会长到超过 6 英尺高。我们已经看到这

些植物紧密聚集在树篱状的林中，植物的茂密程度让人无法透过它们看到阳光。狭长的矛状叶子可能超过

16 英寸长和 4 英寸宽。雏菊状的花朵直径可达 4 英寸，呈焦橙色，光线较窄，与植物健壮的整体外观形成

鲜明对比，是任何药草或花园的绝妙补充！

Habitat and Range: Probably a native of southeastern Europe, elecampane has become naturalized throughout

much of Europe and the eastern portions of the U.S. It has been cultivated throughout much of the world.

栖息地和分布范围：土木香可能原产于欧洲东南部，现已在欧洲大部分地区和美国东部地区归化。世界各

地均有种植。

Cycle and Bloom Season: A perennial that generally blooms in early to midsummer

周期和开花季节：多年生植物，通常在初夏至仲夏开花

Parts Used: Rhizomes (roots)

使用部位：根茎（根）

Primary Medicinal Activities: Expectorant; sedative; respiratory stimulant; lubricates, soothes, and protects

internal mucous membranes; antibacterial, fungicide, expels worms

主要药用活性：祛痰；镇静剂;呼吸兴奋剂；润滑、舒缓和保护内部粘膜；抗菌、杀菌、驱虫

Strongest Affinities: Lungs

最强的亲和力：肺

Preparation: Decoction or tincture

制剂：汤剂或酊剂

=== PAGE 174 ===
Inula helenium

旋覆花

Common Uses: Elecampane has long been regarded as a valuable medicine for a wide variety of lung disorders.

Among herbalists, it is regarded as an expectorant that also lends antibacterial support, mild cough-suppressive

qualities, and relief to mucous membranes by virtue of its slippery, oily, soothing mucilage. In other words,

elecampane helps make coughing more productive by stimulating excretion of mucus, acts to protect and lubricate

inflamed mucous membranes in the respiratory tract while inhibiting bacterial infection, and serves to suppress the

cough response just enough so that the body is relieved of unnecessary stress. Unfortunately, relatively little

scientific study has been performed to support all of these claims. Science has uncovered evidence to suggest that

elecampane may have sedative qualities in mice, and we know that it contains a volatile oil constituent called

alantolactone, which is active against roundworms, whipworms, threadworms, and hookworms in humans.

Regardless of a lack of scientific study, this plant has been used for thousands of years as a treatment for bronchitis,

pneumonia, and tuberculosis—and it is regarded by herbalists as safe enough for use in children with a dry, irritating

cough. In animals, we find it useful for soothing a raspy hack that is the result of too much trail dust or perhaps even

for kennel cough. Proper dose and duration of therapy must be determined through recognition of specific symptoms

and should be based on the special needs of the individual animal. Most of what we know about this herb is centered

on the hands-on experience of those who are familiar with it. Therefore, if elecampane seems to be a viable option

for your animal, seek the advice of a holistic practitioner before you proceed with its use.

常见用途：土木香长期以来被认为是治疗多种肺部疾病的宝贵药物。在草药学家中，它被认为是一种祛痰

剂，还具有抗菌支持、温和的止咳功效，并因其滑滑、油腻、舒缓的粘液而缓解粘膜症状。换句话说，土

木香通过刺激粘液排泄来帮助提高咳嗽效率，保护和润滑呼吸道发炎的粘膜，同时抑制细菌感染，并起到

抑制咳嗽反应的作用，从而使身体摆脱不必要的有害物质。压力。不幸的是，支持所有这些说法的科学研

究相对较少。科学发现的证据表明，土木香可能对小鼠具有镇静作用，而且我们知道它含有一种名为土木

香内酯的挥发性油成分，对人类的蛔虫、鞭虫、线虫和钩虫具有活性。尽管缺乏科学研究，这种植物数千

年来一直被用来治疗支气管炎、肺炎和肺结核，草药学家认为它足够安全，可以安全地用于治疗患有干

咳、刺激性咳嗽的儿童。在动物身上，我们发现它可以缓解因灰尘过多而引起的刺耳咳嗽，甚至可以缓解

犬舍咳嗽。适当的剂量和治疗持续时间必须通过识别具体症状来确定，并应基于个体动物的特殊需要。我

=== PAGE 175 ===
们对这种草药的了解大多来自熟悉它的人的实践经验。因此，如果土木香似乎对您的动物来说是一个可行

的选择，请在继续使用之前寻求整体医生的建议。

Availability: The dried rhizome or tincture is available through herb retailers. Plants, root cuttings, and seeds are

available through specialty nurseries.

可用性：干燥的根茎或酊剂可通过草药零售商购买。植物、根插条和种子可通过专业苗圃获得。

Propagation and Harvest: Elecampane likes full sun and a moist clay loam with an acid pH of 4.5 to 6. Aside from

these requirements, you can grow it just about anywhere. Roots are dug in the fall of their second year. They can

then be processed into tincture while fresh or dried in a warm location for future use.

繁殖和收获：土木香喜欢充足的阳光和湿润的粘土，pH 值为 4.5 至 6。除了这些要求之外，您几乎可以在

任何地方种植它。第二年秋天挖根。然后可以将它们加工成新鲜的酊剂或在温暖的地方干燥以备将来使

用。

Alternatives and Adjuncts: For respiratory disorders associated with heavy congestion, elecampane combines well

with mullein or grindelia. For kennel cough, it can be combined with coltsfoot.

替代品和辅助药物：对于与严重充血相关的呼吸系统疾病，土木香与毛蕊花或银杏可以很好地结合使用。

对于犬窝咳，可与款冬合用。

Cautions and Comments: Elecampane has been shown to be highly allergenic in animals and humans with

sensitivity to plants in the sunflower (Asteraceae) family.

注意事项和评论：土木香已被证明对对向日葵（菊科）科植物敏感的动物和人类具有高度过敏性。

=== PAGE 176 ===
FENNEL

茴香

Foeniculum vulgare

小茴香

Parsley Family

欧芹家族

Appearance: Fennel looks very much like dill—delicate finely divided leaves, yellow umbel flowers, and hollow

stems. The most obvious difference between fennel and dill is the aromatic nature of the plants—fennel smells

somewhat like anise (or licorice), whereas dill smells like, well, dill pickles. Fennel also has sturdier stems and a

proportionately large bulb, which is considered a gourmet delicacy by salad and sautéed vegetable connoisseurs. The

entire plant may grow in excess of 6 feet tall.

外观：茴香看起来非常像莳萝——精致的细裂叶子、黄色的伞形花序花和空心的茎。茴香和莳萝之间最明

显的区别是植物的芳香性质——茴香闻起来有点像茴香（或甘草），而莳萝闻起来像莳萝泡菜。茴香还具

有更坚固的茎和比例较大的球茎，被沙拉和炒蔬菜鉴赏家视为美味佳肴。整株植物可能长到超过 6 英尺

高。

Habitat and Range: Native to Eurasia, fennel has become a full-time, naturalized resident in the southern half of

California, where it is frequently found on the edges of waste areas.

栖息地和分布范围：茴香原产于欧亚大陆，现已成为加利福尼亚州南半部的全职归化居民，经常在荒地边

缘发现它。

Cycle and Bloom Season: There are many subspecies of Foeniculum vulgare—many are perennials, others are

annuals or biennials. In northern climes, fennel usually grows as an annual.

周期和开花季节：茴香有许多亚种，许多是多年生植物，其他是一年生或二年生植物。在北方地区，茴香

通常是一年生植物。

Parts Used: Seeds, leaves, roots

使用部位：种子、叶子、根

Primary Medicinal Activities: Expels intestinal gas, relieves stomach cramps, stimulates milk production,

stimulates digestion, nutritive, and antibacterial

主要药用活性：排出肠道气体，缓解胃痉挛，刺激产奶，促进消化，营养和抗菌

Strongest Affinities: Digestive tract

最强的亲和力：消化道

Preparation: Fresh or dried leaves, seeds, or roots; or a tincture of the seeds or roots

制备方法：新鲜或干燥的叶子、种子或根；或种子或根的酊剂

=== PAGE 177 ===
Foeniculum vulgare

小茴香

Common Uses: Fennel seed is among the first herbs to reach for in cases of flatulence or colic. Its activity in the

digestive tract is similar to that of catnip. Fennel tastes different from any mint, however, and its flavor is often

favored by dogs and cats who dislike “minty” herbs. About 20 percent of cats won’t go near a flake of catnip,

making fennel the herb of choice for gastric upset and irritability. In chronic cases, it serves as a gentle antigas and

antispasmodic agent that can be added directly to the animal’s food to bring symptomatic relief while the caretaker

looks for the deeper cause of the problem. In acute cases, such as when your horse finds an open bag of molasses

and oats that you forgot to put away (or when she grazes on too much fresh alfalfa because you left a gate open),

fennel may help to reduce the subsequent bloating that is caused by intestinal gas buildup. For flatulence or colic,

horses can be free-fed fresh fennel greens—as much as they want—until they find relief. For dogs and cats, fennel

seed works to relieve gastric discomfort from the “no-no’s” that are inevitably consumed as a result of human

weakness such as tidbits fed from the Thanksgiving dinner table or from the dishes that “can wait until morning.” A

cooled tea works well for this purpose—1 teaspoon of the fresh or dried seeds (fresh are better) in 8 ounces of

boiling water, steeped until cool. The tea can be fed at a rate of 2–4 tablespoons for each 20 pounds of the animal’s

body weight, or it can be added to drinking water as generously as the animal will allow. A glycerin tincture also

works well, especially for finicky animals, because it allows for the convenience of a small dosage of 10–20 drops

(or more precisely, up to 0.75 milliliters) per 20 pounds of the animal’s weight, as needed. Fennel is high in vitamin

C, vitamin A, calcium, iron, and potassium and has varying amounts of linoleic acid. It is an especially good

nutritional adjunct for dogs and cats with chronic indigestion that cannot be attributed to a specific disease entity.

Fennel also helps increase appetite and reduce bad breath by minimizing belching and by acting as an antibacterial

in the mouth. The leaf tea is said to be an effective skin and coat rinse for repelling fleas. Traditionally, fennel is fed

to increase milk flow in nursing mothers.

常见用途：茴香籽是治疗肠胃胀气或绞痛时最先使用的草药之一。它在消化道中的活性与猫薄荷相似。然

而，茴香的味道与任何薄荷都不同，它的味道往往受到不喜欢“薄荷味”香草的狗和猫的青睐。大约 20% 的

猫不会靠近猫薄荷片，因此茴香成为治疗胃部不适和烦躁的首选药草。在慢性病例中，它可以作为一种温

和的抗气剂和解痉剂，可以直接添加到动物的食物中，以缓解症状，同时饲养员寻找问题的更深层次原

=== PAGE 178 ===
因。在严重的情况下，例如当你的马发现一袋打开的糖蜜和燕麦而你忘记收起来时（或者当她因为你没关

门而吃到太多新鲜的苜蓿时），茴香可能有助于减少随后的腹胀。是由肠道气体积聚引起的。对于胀气或

绞痛，马可以自由喂食新鲜茴香叶——想吃多少就吃多少——直到它们得到缓解。对于狗和猫来说，茴香

籽可以缓解因人类弱点而不可避免地食用的“禁忌”引起的胃部不适，例如感恩节餐桌上的小吃或“可以等到

早上”的菜肴。冷却的茶非常适合此目的 - 将 1 茶匙新鲜或干燥的种子（新鲜的更好）放入 8 盎司的沸水

中，浸泡直至冷却。可以按照每 20 磅动物体重 2-4 汤匙的比例喂茶，也可以在动物允许的范围内将茶添加

到饮用水中。甘油酊剂也很有效，特别是对于挑剔的动物，因为它可以方便地使用 10-20 滴（或更准确地

说，最多 0 滴）的小剂量。根据需要，每 20 磅动物体重 75 毫升。茴香富含维生素 C、维生素 A、钙、铁

和钾，并含有不同含量的亚油酸。对于患有慢性消化不良且不能归因于特定疾病实体的狗和猫来说，它是

一种特别好的营养辅助剂。茴香还可以通过减少打嗝和作为口腔抗菌剂来帮助增加食欲并减少口臭。据说

叶茶是一种有效的皮肤和皮毛冲洗剂，可以驱除跳蚤。传统上，喂茴香可以增加哺乳期母亲的乳汁流量。

Availability: Fennel seed, root, and sometimes the greens can be found in food stores that stock specialty

vegetables. Fennel tinctures are available through herb retailers.

可获得性：茴香籽、茴香根，有时还可以在出售特色蔬菜的食品店找到茴香蔬菜。茴香酊剂可通过草药零

售商购买。

Propagation and Harvest: Fennel is easy to grow from seed or nursery starts. It does best in areas with a cool

climate and likes light, dry, slightly alkaline soil. The seeds should be harvested in the fall, just as they begin to dry

and turn to a light brown color. The leaves and flowers can be harvested and used anytime. For food use, the 1-inch-

wide bulbs are “blanched” throughout the remainder of their growth by covering them with hills of soil. This makes

the bulbs white and tender with a mild flavor.

繁殖和收获：茴香很容易从种子或苗圃开始生长。它在气候凉爽的地区生长得最好，喜欢轻质、干燥、微

碱性的土壤。种子应该在秋天收获，当它们开始干燥并变成浅棕色时。叶子和花可以随时采收和使用。为

了供食用，这些 1 英寸宽的球茎在其生长的剩余过程中会通过用土丘覆盖它们来“漂白”。这使得球茎又白

又嫩，味道温和。

Alternatives and Adjuncts: Catnip serves as an excellent alternative, as does anise seed, celery seed, or dill seed.

For chronic flatulence, try using a bitter herb such as dandelion leaf or Oregon grape a few minutes before each

feeding. Fennel can then be used after meals if flatulence persists.

替代品和辅助品：猫薄荷、茴香籽、芹菜籽或莳萝籽都是很好的替代品。对于慢性胀气，尝试在每次喂食

前几分钟使用苦味药草，例如蒲公英叶或俄勒冈葡萄。如果肠胃气胀持续，可以在饭后使用茴香。

Cautions and Comments: The volatile oils in fennel are thought to cause or contribute to photosensitive dermatitis

in some animals, but such occurrences are rare. In general, this herb is safe.

注意事项和评论：茴香中的挥发油被认为会导致或促成某些动物的光敏性皮炎，但这种情况很少见。一般

来说，这种草药是安全的。

=== PAGE 179 ===
FEVERFEW

发烧

Tanacetum parthenium

菊科植物

Sunflower Family

向日葵家族

Appearance: Feverfew is a stout, fast-growing plant with sturdy ridged stems, deeply divided alternate leaves, and

yellow-centered white flowers that look like miniature (1-inch-wide) white daisies. The entire plant is aromatic.

外观：小白菊是一种粗壮、快速生长的植物，具有坚固的脊状茎、深裂的互生叶和黄色中心的白色花朵，

看起来像微型（1英寸宽）白色雏菊。整个植物都是芳香的。

Habitat and Range: Feverfew is native to the Balkan region of Europe and has since been naturalized throughout

North America.

栖息地和分布范围：小白菊原产于欧洲巴尔干地区，现已在整个北美归化。

Cycle and Bloom Season: A perennial or biennial that usually blooms from June through August

周期和开花季节：多年生或二年生植物，通常从六月到八月开花

=== PAGE 180 ===
Tanacetum parthenium

菊科植物

Parts Used: All aerial parts

使用零件：所有空中零件

Primary Medicinal Activities: Anti-inflammatory, helps reduce arthritic inflammation (antirheumatic), dilates

blood vessels, insecticidal, promotes menstruation

主要药用活性：抗炎、帮助减少关节炎炎症（抗风湿）、扩张血管、杀虫、促进月经

Strongest Affinities: Vascular, gastrointestinal, and reproductive systems

最强的亲和力：血管、胃肠道和生殖系统

Preparation: Dried herb, tincture, and tea

准备：干草药、酊剂和茶

Common Uses: Feverfew has become a well-known remedy for migraine sufferers. Several studies have shown that

part of its effectiveness in treating migraines is attributable to a group of chemicals known as sesquiterpene lactones

(especially parthenolide) that are contained in the plants’ leaves and flowers. These compounds act to inhibit platelet

aggregation in the bloodstream, thus preventing blockage of small capillaries and helping to relieve the pounding,

high-pressure pain of a migraine headache. In animals, this activity helps relieve posttrauma or postsurgical

discomfort, especially where capillary circulation is diminished or impaired. Feverfew has been shown to block or

inhibit the release of histamine, serotonin, thromboxane, and prostaglandins, while inhibiting proliferation of certain

types of mononuclear cells in the synovia of injured or arthritic joints. This means that feverfew might be useful in

the proactive reduction of inflammation associated with arthritis, joint injuries, and various other diseases.

常见用途：小白菊已成为治疗偏头痛患者的众所周知的药物。多项研究表明，其治疗偏头痛的部分功效归

因于植物叶子和花中含有的一组称为倍半萜内酯（尤其是小白菊内酯）的化学物质。这些化合物可以抑制

血液中的血小板聚集，从而防止小毛细血管堵塞，并有助于缓解偏头痛带来的剧烈高压疼痛。在动物中，

这种活动有助于缓解创伤后或手术后的不适，特别是在毛细血管循环减少或受损的情况下。小白菊已被证

明可以阻断或抑制组胺、血清素、血栓素和前列腺素的释放，同时抑制受伤或关节炎关节滑液中某些类型

单核细胞的增殖。这意味着小白菊可能有助于主动减少与关节炎、关节损伤和各种其他疾病相关的炎症。

Feverfew is especially useful in cats as an alternative to aspirin, which can be toxic to felines. And many of the

classic anti-inflammatory herbs, including willow, poplar, and meadowsweet, contain salicylic acids, the natural

precursors to aspirin. Feverfew may not address pain as directly as aspirin, but it does not contain any salicylate

compounds and can therefore be used with a greater margin of safety. A glycerin-based tincture works well for this

purpose, as does a cooled tea. A safe starting dosage is 12–20 drops of the tincture or ½ teaspoon of a strong tea for

each 20 pounds of the animal’s body weight, twice daily.

小白菊作为阿司匹林的替代品对猫特别有用，因为阿司匹林可能对猫有毒。许多经典的抗炎草药，包括

柳树、杨树和绣线菊，都含有水杨酸，这是阿司匹林的天然前体。小白菊可能无法像阿司匹林那样直接缓

解疼痛，但它不含任何水杨酸盐化合物，因此使用时具有更大的安全性。甘油酊剂和冷茶都可以很好地达

到此目的。安全的起始剂量是每 20 磅动物体重 12-20 滴酊剂或 ½ 茶匙浓茶，每天两次。

The upper parts of feverfew (especially the flowers) contain pyrethrins, compounds that are known to paralyze

fleas. To make a flea rinse for your pet, pour boiling water over some fresh herbs. Cover the container, and let the

mixture stand until it is completely cooled. Strain the herb from the liquid, and pour the liquid onto your animal’s

coat, making sure that it soaks down to the skin. Do not towel dry your pet. Let the rinse dry naturally and be sure to

use all of the rinse as the pyrethrin will not remain active for more than a few hours.

小白菊的上部（尤其是花朵）含有除虫菊酯，这种化合物可以麻痹跳蚤。要为您的宠物制作跳蚤冲洗

剂，请将沸水倒在一些新鲜香草上。盖上容器，让混合物静置直至完全冷却。将药草从液体中滤出，然后

=== PAGE 181 ===
将液体倒在动物的皮毛上，确保它浸透到皮肤上。不要用毛巾擦干你的宠物。让冲洗液自然干燥，并确保

用完所有冲洗液，因为除虫菊酯的活性不会持续超过几个小时。

Availability: Feverfew is readily available wherever herbal remedies are sold. The plants are available through most

nurseries. For use against fleas, however, you really need a fresh plant—so plant one in your garden.

可获得性：只要有草药出售，小白菊就很容易买到。大多数苗圃都可以买到这些植物。然而，为了对抗跳

蚤，你确实需要一株新鲜的植物——所以在你的花园里种植一株。

Propagation and Harvest: Feverfew is easy to grow from seed or nursery starts. The plants are extremely winter

hardy, drought resistant, and tolerant of poor soil. Tuck a plant into the corner of your garden, give it a little water,

and watch it grow. (In fact, it will reseed its way right out of the garden!) Harvest the leaves and flowers as you need

them.

繁殖和收获：小白菊很容易从种子或苗圃开始生长。这些植物非常耐寒，抗旱，能耐受贫瘠的土壤。将植

物塞到花园的角落里，给它一点水，然后观察它的生长。 （事实上，它会直接从花园里重新播种！）根据

需要收获叶子和花朵。

Alternatives and Adjuncts: For relief from pain and inflammation, feverfew combines well with skullcap, valerian,

and licorice. For fighting fleas, combine with yarrow and celery or dill seed.

替代品和辅助剂：为了缓解疼痛和炎症，小白菊与黄芩、缬草和甘草完美结合。要对抗跳蚤，请与西洋蓍

草、芹菜或莳萝籽混合使用。

Cautions and Comments: I (Greg) have heard that feverfew should never be fed fresh, because it may cause mouth

ulcers. But throughout two decades of using and recommending this herb, I have yet to witness an adverse side

effect. Nevertheless, caution dictates that we should take care in assuring that the herb is entirely dried first.

注意事项和评论：我（格雷格）听说小白菊不应该新鲜喂养，因为它可能会导致口腔溃疡。但在使用和推

荐这种草药的二十年中，我尚未目睹任何不良副作用。尽管如此，谨慎要求我们应该小心确保草药首先完

全干燥。

=== PAGE 182 ===
FLAX

亚麻

Linum spp.

亚麻属

Flax Family

亚麻家族

Appearance: Almost three hundred species of flax are distributed worldwide. The most common species have

bright blue, five-petaled, ½- to 1-inch-wide flowers, narrow single-veined leaves, small five-chambered fruits, and

wirelike stems that sway in the slightest breeze and seem to have a hard time supporting their own weight. Plants

range in height from 6 to 32 inches.

外观：世界各地分布着近三百种亚麻。最常见的品种有明亮的蓝色、五瓣、1/2 至 1 英寸宽的花朵、狭窄的

单脉叶子、小五室的果实和在微风中摇曳的线状茎，看起来很难受。支撑自己的重量。植物的高度范围为 6

至 32 英寸。

Habitat and Range: Common blue flax (Linum perenne) and several other blue-flowered species are found in

prairies, in open meadows, and along roadways throughout North America.

栖息地和分布范围：常见的蓝色亚麻（Linum perenne）和其他几种蓝色花的物种分布在整个北美的大草

原、开阔的草地和道路沿线。

Cycle and Bloom Season: An annual or perennial (depending on species) that blooms from June to August and

reseeds itself readily

周期和开花季节：一年生或多年生植物（取决于物种），从六月到八月开花，并且很容易重新播种

Parts Used: Seeds (called flaxseed)

使用部分：种子（称为亚麻籽）

Primary Medicinal Activities: Nutritive, soothes the digestive tract, laxative, antioxidant, tonic

主要药用活性： 营养、舒缓消化道、泻药、抗氧化剂、滋补品

Strongest Affinities: Skin, nervous system, digestive system

最强亲和力：皮肤、神经系统、消化系统

Preparation: Ground seeds, seed oil, stabilized seeds

准备工作：磨碎的种子、种子油、稳定的种子

Common Uses: Flaxseed contains alpha-linolenic acid and linoleic acid, as well as omega-3 fatty acids. Essential

fatty acids are important in the development and maintenance of a healthy brain, liver, heart, and immune system—

in fact, these acids are so important, animals cannot survive without them. Several studies have confirmed that

=== PAGE 183 ===
omega-3 fatty acids are essential factors in the brain development of young animals and may even help protect the

brain against certain types of neurotoxins. Numerous studies also have shown that daily supplementation with EFAs

may dramatically improve the skin, coat, and nails in animals who receive it as a supplement to a good diet.

Essential fatty acids have been linked to retinal development and antioxidant activities. The point is this: All animals

require EFAs in order to enjoy healthy lives. The problem is that many animals do not receive enough to adequately

support their bodies’ needs and, as a result, suffer from chronic diseases that could have been easily prevented.

Flaxseed oil is one of the richest plant source of omega-3 fatty acids known to humanity—but it is not the “totally

complete,” stand-alone source of omega-3 fatty acids we once thought. A piece of the complex puzzle is missing,

namely, gamma linolenic acid (GLA)—a fatty acid that is needed to support the body’s inflammatory responses to

allergens and other inflammatory stimuli. The problem is due to the lack of a critical enzyme, called delta-6

desaturase (or D6D), that is needed to convert the linoleic acid constituents in flax into GLA. Although most

mammals, including humans, should be able to produce D6D, most cannot. This is due to environmental factors,

such as various pollutants, and perhaps even emotional stress factors, which have been shown to inhibit the body’s

production of this important enzyme. So if you are searching for a more complete omega-3 supplement, you should

turn to fish oil, borage seed oil, or chia seed. All of these sources already contain gamma linoleic acids, and no

metabolic conversion (or D6D) is required for the body fully utilize it.

常见用途：亚麻籽含有 α-亚麻酸和亚油酸，以及 omega-3 脂肪酸。必需脂肪酸对于健康的大脑、肝脏、心

脏和免疫系统的发育和维持非常重要——事实上，这些酸是如此重要，动物没有它们就无法生存。多项研

究证实，omega-3 脂肪酸是幼年动物大脑发育的重要因素，甚至可能有助于保护大脑免受某些类型的神经毒

素的侵害。大量研究还表明，每天补充必需脂肪酸可以显着改善动物的皮肤、毛发和指甲，这些动物将其

作为良好饮食的补充。必需脂肪酸与视网膜发育和抗氧化活性有关。要点是：所有动物都需要必需脂肪酸

才能享受健康的生活。问题在于，许多动物没有获得足够的营养来充分支持其身体的需求，因此患上了本

可以轻松预防的慢性疾病。亚麻籽油是人类已知的最丰富的 omega-3 脂肪酸植物来源之一，但它并不是我

们曾经认为的“完全”、独立的 omega-3 脂肪酸来源。这个复杂难题中缺少了一块，即γ亚麻酸（GLA）——

一种支持人体对过敏原和其他炎症刺激的炎症反应所需的脂肪酸。问题是由于缺乏一种称为 delta-6 去饱和

酶（或 D6D）的关键酶，这种酶是将亚麻中的亚油酸成分转化为 GLA 所需的。尽管大多数哺乳动物（包括

人类）应该能够产生 D6D，但大多数却不能。 这是由于环境因素，例如各种污染物，甚至可能是情绪压力

因素，这些因素已被证明会抑制人体产生这种重要的酶。因此，如果您正在寻找更全面的 omega-3 补充

剂，您应该转向鱼油、琉璃苣籽油或奇亚籽。所有这些来源都已含有 γ 亚油酸，身体无需代谢转化（或

D6D）即可充分利用它。

=== PAGE 184 ===
Linum sp.

亚麻属sp。

There are various ways to feed flaxseed to an animal. One option is to buy a nutritional supplement that includes

flaxseed as part of a balanced herbal formula. Other options are to buy the seeds in their whole form and grind them

immediately before adding them to your companion’s food. You can also use flaxseed oil. When deciding which

form of flaxseed is best for you and your companion, you should consider several factors. First, it’s important to

know that flaxseed oil (the fraction of the plant that contains the highest concentration of EFAs) becomes rancid

very quickly. While flaxseed oil offers omega-3 EFAs in a form that can be fed in relatively small quantities and that

is quickly and completely absorbed into the body, it requires constant refrigeration and its shelf life is variable and

unpredictable. On the other hand, its flavor is relatively easy to mask in an animal’s food. If you wish to use flax for

digestive problems, you will need the seeds. Whole seeds keep for several months if refrigerated but must be ground

into powder each time they are used. If you grind them ahead of time, they will quickly spoil. The freshly ground

seeds can be used as an EFA supplement, but it’s difficult to gauge the amount of EFAs your animal receives with

each feeding because as the seeds age, their EFA content deteriorates. Another problem with the seed option is

palatability—many animals don’t like the flavor of ground flaxseeds, and getting an appreciable amount of the

powder into a finicky animal can be challenging. The solution: buy a natural pet product that contains stabilized

flaxseed.

有多种方法可以给动物喂食亚麻籽。一种选择是购买一种营养补充剂，其中含有亚麻籽作为平衡草药配

方的一部分。其他选择是购买完整的种子并立即将其磨碎，然后将其添加到同伴的食物中。您也可以使用

亚麻籽油。在决定哪种亚麻籽最适合您和您的伴侣时，您应该考虑几个因素。首先，重要的是要知道亚麻

籽油（植物中含有最高浓度 EFA 的部分）很快就会酸败。虽然亚麻籽油以相对少量的形式提供 omega-3

EFA，并且可以快速、完全地被人体吸收，但它需要持续冷藏，并且其保质期是可变且不可预测的。另一

方面，它的味道相对容易被动物食物掩盖。如果您想使用亚麻来治疗消化问题，则需要亚麻籽。如果冷藏

的话，整个种子可以保存几个月，但每次使用时都必须磨成粉末。如果你提前磨碎它们，它们很快就会变

质。新鲜磨碎的种子可以用作必需脂肪酸补充剂，但很难测量动物每次喂食时摄入的必需脂肪酸含量，因

为随着种子老化，它们的必需脂肪酸含量会下降。种子选择的另一个问题是适口性——许多动物不喜欢磨

碎的亚麻籽的味道，而给挑剔的动物喂大量的亚麻籽粉可能是一项挑战。解决方案：购买含有稳定亚麻籽

=== PAGE 185 ===
的天然宠物产品。

Stabilized flaxseed is treated with zinc and vitamin B6, which makes the seed taste better and helps to prevent the

EFA-containing oil from becoming rancid. If you buy a stabilized flaxseed product that is designed especially for

animals, follow the manufacturer’s feeding instructions. You can also buy stabilized flaxseed that is intended for

humans and prorate the recommended dose up or down to your animal’s body weight. Human doses are generally

based on the needs of a 150-pound person; therefore, if you have a 50-pound dog, you need to feed the dog one-third

of the recommended dose for humans. It’s also a good idea to consult your veterinarian for the correct dosage for

your pet’s weight.

稳定的亚麻籽经过锌和维生素 B6 处理，使种子味道更好，并有助于防止含有 EFA 的油酸败。如果您购

买专为动物设计的稳定亚麻籽产品，请遵循制造商的喂养说明。您还可以购买供人类使用的稳定亚麻籽，

并根据动物的体重按比例增加或减少推荐剂量。人体剂量一般根据150磅重的人的需要而定；因此，如果你

有一只50磅重的狗，你需要给狗喂食人类推荐剂量的三分之一。咨询您的兽医以了解适合您宠物体重的正

确剂量也是一个好主意。

If you don’t wish to use a stabilized flaxseed product and have access to a source of fresh flaxseed, buy weekly

supplies and grind a ½ teaspoon of the seed into a fine powder for each 20 pounds of your animal’s body weight.

Sprinkle the powder onto your companion’s food each day, and be sure that she has plenty of water to drink with her

meal because flaxseed absorbs water and gains mass while in the stomach. This swelling action is due to the

combined fiber, mucilage, and oil content of the seed, which make flaxseed an excellent herb for colic, constipation,

and other digestive problems. The oily mucilage of the seed helps lubricate the digestive tract while the swollen

fibers serve as a safe but efficient intestinal cleanser (it works the same way as psyllium husks do). For cases of

constipation, 1 teaspoon of ground flaxseed can be thoroughly mixed with 4 ounces of cool water. Allow the

mixture to stand for an hour, or until it thickens—you should be able to rub a drop between your thumb and

forefinger and feel its oily nature. If the mixture doesn’t feel slippery, add more powder and let it stand again. The

idea is to activate the flaxseed before putting it into your companion’s body and thus alleviate any possibility of

expansion-related discomfort. Once you get a slippery consistency, 2 teaspoons of the mixture can be fed for each

30 pounds of the animal’s body weight (start with ½ teaspoon in cats). If possible, the slurry should be fed on an

empty stomach so the mixture can work its way throughout the digestive tract.

如果您不想使用稳定的亚麻籽产品，但有新鲜亚麻籽来源，请每周购买供应品，并按照每 20 磅动物体重

将 1/2 茶匙亚麻籽研磨成细粉。每天将粉末撒在同伴的食物上，并确保她在用餐时喝足够的水，因为亚麻籽

在胃中会吸收水分并增加质量。这种膨胀作用是由于种子中的纤维、粘液和油脂含量所致，这使得亚麻籽

成为治疗绞痛、便秘和其他消化问题的极佳草药。种子的油性粘液有助于润滑消化道，而膨胀的纤维则可

作为安全而有效的肠道清洁剂（其作用方式与车前草壳相同）。对于便秘情况，可将 1 茶匙磨碎的亚麻籽

与 4 盎司冷水充分混合。让混合物静置一个小时，或者直到它变稠——你应该能够在拇指和食指之间擦一

滴，感觉到它的油性。如果混合物感觉不滑，请添加更多粉末并再次静置。这个想法是在将亚麻籽放入同

伴的身体之前激活它，从而减轻任何与扩张相关的不适的可能性。一旦达到光滑的稠度，每 30 磅体重的动

物可以喂 2 茶匙混合物（从猫的 1/2 茶匙开始）。如果可能的话，应空腹喂食浆液，以便混合物可以在整个

消化道中发挥作用。

Propagation and Harvest: Flax is easy to grow from seed. Simply scatter the seeds as thinly as possible, rake them

into the top ⅛ inch of soil, and water thoroughly. Sprouts will usually emerge within seven days. Flax is a pretty

border plant, but it really isn’t a practical herb to grow for medicinal purposes. It takes several plants to yield a

useful quantity of seed, which must be thrashed and separated from the stems, leaves, and seed capsules. Without

special equipment, this is a tedious task that yields only a handful of seeds that could have been purchased for a few

cents at a health food store.

繁殖和收获：亚麻很容易从种子开始生长。只需将种子撒得尽可能薄，将它们耙入顶部 ⅛ 英寸的土壤中，

然后彻底浇水。一般7天内就会发芽。亚麻是一种漂亮的边境植物，但它确实不是一种用于药用目的的实用

草药。需要几株植物才能产生有用数量的种子，必须将种子与茎、叶和种皮分离。如果没有特殊设备，这

是一项乏味的任务，只能产出少量种子，而这些种子本来可以在保健食品商店花几美分买到。

Alternatives and Adjuncts: Borage seed oil, evening primrose oil, and black currant seed oil are also excellent

=== PAGE 186 ===
sources of EFAs. Flaxseed oil can be combined with cod liver oil or other fish oils to make a rounded supplement of

omega-3 and omega-6 fatty acids. For digestive problems, psyllium husks, plantain, and marshmallow serve as good

alternatives.

替代品和添加剂：琉璃苣籽油、月见草油和黑醋栗籽油也是 EFA 的极好来源。亚麻籽油可与鱼肝油或其他

鱼油混合，制成全面的 omega-3 和 omega-6 脂肪酸补充剂。对于消化问题，车前子壳、车前草和棉花糖都

是很好的替代品。

Cautions and Comments: Dry flaxseeds should be fed with plenty of water, otherwise digestive upset and

discomfort may result from rapid expansion of the seed fibers in the digestive tract. The best way to avoid this

possibility is to premix flaxseed with water prior to feeding or to use a balanced flaxseed formula that is specially

designed to be used in powder form.

注意事项和评论：干亚麻籽应喂大量的水，否则种子纤维在消化道中快速膨胀可能会导致消化不良和不

适。避免这种可能性的最佳方法是在喂食前将亚麻籽与水预混合，或使用专为粉末形式使用而设计的平衡

亚麻籽配方。

=== PAGE 187 ===
GARLIC

蒜

Allium sativum

大蒜

Lily Family

百合家族

Appearance: Need we describe garlic? It’s what makes Italian dishes worthwhile. It is the aromatic bulb that repels

vampires yet attracts hungry people with its nose-tantalizing, mouthwatering scent. While most of us can readily

identify a head of garlic in the supermarket, relatively few of us are familiar with the living green plant. Garlic is a

member of the Allium genus, a branch of the lily family that also includes hundreds of varieties of onions, leeks,

chives, and shallots. In terms of appearance, the numerous varieties of garlic are differentiated from what we know

as onions by the nature of their bulbs (commonly known as heads) and their leaves. Commercial varieties of garlic

produce heads that are divided into segments (cloves), whereas onion bulbs are comprised of singular, multilayered

globes. Garlic leaves are characteristically flat and almost grasslike, whereas most onions’ leaves tend to be hollow

and erect. Shallot leaves fall somewhere in between. For the purposes of holistic healing, it’s important to know that

all of the Allium species come from the same source—nature. All of the various colors and shapes of onions, garlic,

and their relatives have originated from wild Allium species that range throughout the world. On the slopes

surrounding our Montana home, several species of wild Allium are among the first greens to emerge from the

receding snows of early spring. With their emergence come winter-weary bears, grouse, deer, elk, and moose, all of

whom wish to indulge, if only briefly, in a snack of garliclike wild onions. As one watches these animals while they

browse, it soon becomes apparent that they eat wild onions and garlic to fill some instinctive need other than hunger

—they pick and choose only a few select plants, then move on to others. Could it be they know something we don’t?

Certainly! It is obvious that nature put the Allium genus here for reasons far deeper than epicurean delight.

Fortunately for those who cannot forage the wilds of North America on behalf of their pets, the “supermarket

varieties” of garlic are of optimum medicinal potency.

外观：我们需要描述大蒜吗？这就是意大利菜物有所值的原因。它是一种芳香的球茎，可以驱除吸血鬼，

但又以其诱人的鼻子、令人垂涎欲滴的气味吸引饥饿的人。虽然我们大多数人都能轻易地在超市里辨认出

一头大蒜，但我们很少有人熟悉这种活生生的绿色植物。大蒜是葱属的一种，是百合科的一个分支，还包

括数百种洋葱、韭菜、细香葱和青葱。就外观而言，众多大蒜品种与我们所知的洋葱的区别在于其球茎

（通常称为头）和叶子的性质。商业品种的大蒜产生的头被分成多个部分（丁香），而洋葱球茎则由单个

多层球体组成。大蒜的叶子通常是扁平的，几乎像草一样，而大多数洋葱的叶子往往是中空的且直立的。

青葱叶介于两者之间。为了整体治疗的目的，重要的是要知道所有葱属植物都来自同一个来源——大自

然。所有各种颜色和形状的洋葱、大蒜及其近缘种都起源于遍布世界各地的野生葱属物种。在我们蒙大拿

州家园周围的山坡上，几种野生葱属植物是早春消融的积雪中最早长出的绿色植物之一。随着它们的出

现，厌冬的熊、松鸡、鹿、麋鹿和驼鹿也随之出现，所有这些动物都想吃点像大蒜一样的野洋葱零食，哪

怕只是短暂的。当人们在这些动物浏览时观察它们，很快就会发现它们吃野洋葱和大蒜是为了满足除饥饿

之外的一些本能需求——它们只采摘和选择几种精选植物，然后转向其他植物。 难道他们知道一些我们不

知道的事情吗？当然！显然，大自然将葱属植物放在这里的原因远比享乐主义的快乐更深层次。幸运的

是，对于那些无法代表宠物在北美野外觅食的人来说，“超市品种”的大蒜具有最佳的药用功效。

Habitat and Range: It has been theorized that garlic’s wild ancestors originated from west-central Asia. Garlic’s

use as a medicine dates back at least five thousand years, and since then hundreds of cultivars have been propagated

worldwide. In North America, dozens of varieties can be found in open forest clearings and grasslands at foothill to

subalpine elevations. Most are montane residents.

=== PAGE 188 ===
栖息地和分布范围：据推测，大蒜的野生祖先起源于亚洲中西部。大蒜作为药物的使用至少可以追溯到五

千年前，从那时起，数百个品种已在世界范围内传播。在北美，在山麓至亚高山海拔的开阔森林空地和草

原上可以找到数十种品种。大多数是山区居民。

Cycle and Bloom Season: Although commercial varieties are typically harvested during their first year of growth

when the bulbs are prime, most Allium species are self-seeding perennials that bloom in midsummer.

周期和开花季节：虽然商业品种通常是在球茎生长的第一年收获的，但大多数葱属物种都是自花多年生植

物，在仲夏开花。

Parts Used: Bulb (the segments of which are called cloves)

使用的部分：球茎（其部分称为丁香）

Primary Medicinal Activities: Antibacterial, stimulates the immune system, anticancer, nutritive, antioxidant,

expectorant, lowers blood pressure, antitumor, antiviral, antifungal, tonic

主要药用活性：抗菌、刺激免疫系统、抗癌、营养、抗氧化、祛痰、降低血压、抗肿瘤、抗病毒、抗真

菌、滋补

Strongest Affinities: Liver, blood, cardiovascular system, immune system

最强的亲和力：肝脏、血液、心血管系统、免疫系统

Preparation: Fresh, dried, tincture, or oil infusion

制剂：新鲜、干燥、酊剂或油浸剂

Common Uses: Garlic contains considerable amounts of protein, fiber, potassium, phosphorus, calcium, sodium,

vitamin A, thiamine, niacin, taurine, zinc, riboflavin, and dozens of other nutritive compounds. A single clove of

fresh garlic may contain as much as one hundred sulfur compounds, all of which have been shown to possess

medicinal qualities.

常见用途：大蒜含有大量的蛋白质、纤维、钾、磷、钙、钠、维生素 A、硫胺素、烟酸、牛磺酸、锌、核

黄素和数十种其他营养化合物。一瓣新鲜大蒜可能含有多达一百种硫化合物，所有这些化合物都已被证明

具有药用价值。

Most of us who read the ads and labels for garlic preparations or supplements at health food stores are continually

reminded of allicin—a volatile oil constituent of garlic. Once believed to be the definitive factor in garlic’s healing

abilities, allicin represents only a segment of garlic’s complex, medicinally versatile chemistry. This is not to say

that allicin is not useful; actually it is one of the most impressive broad-spectrum antimicrobial substances available

in nature, with dozens of scientific studies to back up this claim. Researchers have found that allicin may be more

effective against harmful microbes than tetracycline, a frequently prescribed antibiotic drug. And unlike

conventional antibiotics, garlic works against many forms of virus and won’t compromise populations of beneficial

flora in the digestive tract when ingested in the appropriate amounts.

我们大多数人在保健食品商店看到大蒜制剂或补充剂的广告和标签时，都会不断地想起大蒜素——大蒜

的一种挥发油成分。大蒜素一度被认为是大蒜治愈能力的决定性因素，但它仅代表大蒜复杂的、具有药用

价值的化学成分的一部分。这并不是说大蒜素没有用；而是说大蒜素没有用处。事实上，它是自然界中最

令人印象深刻的广谱抗菌物质之一，有数十项科学研究支持这一说法。研究人员发现，大蒜素可能比常用

抗生素药物四环素更有效地对抗有害微生物。与传统抗生素不同的是，大蒜可以对抗多种病毒，并且在摄

入适量时不会损害消化道中的有益菌群。

Despite its clear value as a healing agent, allicin is not the only healing agent in garlic worth considering. In fact,

the presence of allicin in garlic preparations is not required at all in many situations where garlic may prove

=== PAGE 189 ===
beneficial. At least thirty other compounds that are contained in garlic have been shown to be useful for conditions

that range from skin disorders to cancer.

尽管大蒜素作为治疗剂具有明显的价值，但它并不是大蒜中唯一值得考虑的治疗剂。事实上，在大蒜可

能有益的许多情况下，根本不需要大蒜制剂中含有大蒜素。大蒜中含有的至少三十种其他化合物已被证明

可用于治疗从皮肤病到癌症的各种疾病。

Allicin is an unstable compound that dissipates quickly when exposed to air, moisture, or heat. Unless special

measures are taken to preserve it, the allicin content in many garlic preparations are nil by the time they reach

someone who needs them. To confront this dilemma, several garlic preparations that have been “standardized to

allicin” are available on the market. These extracts, powders, capsules, and tablets have had a certain percentage of

allicin added in the laboratory to “guarantee their potency.” Such formulas are safe and effective when used properly

for specific antimicrobial purposes but are generally unnecessary and expensive for use in most other instances

where garlic is indicated. And, despite the claims of many manufacturers, consumers can’t tell if the allicin content

in a standardized preparation still exists at the time of use. Unless a laboratory analysis is performed after the

product has reached store shelves, there’s no way of knowing whether the allicin’s potency has vanished from the

formula.

大蒜素是一种不稳定的化合物，当暴露于空气、湿气或热量时会迅速消散。除非采取特殊措施来保存，

否则许多大蒜制品中的大蒜素含量在到达需要它们的人手中时已经为零。为了解决这一难题，市场上出现

了几种“大蒜素标准化”的大蒜制剂。这些提取物、粉末、胶囊和片剂在实验室中添加了一定比例的大蒜

素，以“保证其效力”。当正确用于特定抗菌目的时，此类配方是安全有效的，但在需要使用大蒜的大多数

其他情况下通常没有必要且昂贵。而且，尽管许多制造商声称，消费者在使用时无法判断标准化制剂中的

大蒜素含量是否仍然存在。除非在产品上架后进行实验室分析，否则无法知道大蒜素的效力是否已从配方

中消失。

Before you use a standardized formula, try to find out how the manufacturer can guarantee the allicin content in

the product after it leaves the lab. If the company’s answer is satisfactory, then bear in mind that many of garlic’s

other medicinal constituents may be absent or overpowered by an unnatural abundance of allicin and that you will

be using garlic in a manner beyond nature’s design. Regardless of what the manufacturer might say, nature endows

garlic with a specific amount of allicin as well as hundreds of other compounds that serve unified purposes.

在使用标准化配方之前，请尝试了解制造商如何保证产品出厂后的大蒜素含量。如果该公司的答案令人

满意，那么请记住，大蒜的许多其他药用成分可能不存在或被非自然丰富的大蒜素所压倒，并且您将以超

出自然设计的方式使用大蒜。不管制造商怎么说，大自然赋予大蒜特定数量的大蒜素以及数百种其他具有

统一用途的化合物。

When we isolate a single constituent from the whole plant, we are no longer working within a natural context, and

we limit the healing potential of that plant to the confines of what we know, as opposed to what might be possible.

While scientists are beginning to understand how single chemical elements and compounds work in or on the body,

we still know very little about how they work in a synergistic capacity. In this realm, just beyond our understanding,

a great many healing secrets are waiting to be discovered. Any good herbalist will tell you that the whole is always

greater than the sum of its parts.

当我们从整个植物中分离出单一成分时，我们就不再在自然环境中工作，并且我们将该植物的治疗潜力

限制在我们所知道的范围内，而不是可能的范围。虽然科学家们开始了解单一化学元素和化合物如何在体

内或体内发挥作用，但我们对它们如何协同发挥作用仍然知之甚少。在这个超出我们理解的领域，有许多

治愈的秘密等待着我们去发现。任何优秀的草药医生都会告诉你，整体总是大于部分之和。

=== PAGE 190 ===
Allium sativum

大蒜

The chemical complexity of garlic is good news for the self-reliant herbalist because in addition to allicin, garlic

contains a multitude of compounds that are stable and easy to use. Despite its widespread recognition as a healthy

food for humans, garlic demands some added respect, caution, and therapeutic consideration if it is to be used

effectively in the care of animals. Here are three general rules of proper use:

大蒜的化学复杂性对于自力更生的草药师来说是个好消息，因为除了大蒜素之外，大蒜还含有多种稳定

且易于使用的化合物。尽管大蒜被广泛认为是人类的健康食品，但如果要将其有效地用于动物护理，则需

要更多的尊重、谨慎和治疗考虑。以下是正确使用的三个一般规则：

• Allicin is essential in applications where garlic is to be used as a natural form of antibiotic but may not be

necessary if you are using garlic for general health maintenance or other purposes.

• 大蒜素在将大蒜用作天然形式抗生素的应用中是必不可少的，但如果您将大蒜用于一般健康维护或其

他目的，则可能没有必要。

• If you wish to employ garlic as an antibiotic, you need to use raw garlic or raw garlic juice within three hours

of chopping or pressing the fresh cloves, or you need a good garlic extract from a reputable source. A

properly dried garlic powder may be useful for internal antibiotic applications as well, though only a residual

trace of allicin remains in the powder until it is used. In this case, two compounds, alliin and allinase, meet

with enzymes to form allicin as they enter the mouth. The allicin then does its work within the body—from

the inside out.

• 如果您希望使用大蒜作为抗生素，您需要在切碎或压榨新鲜丁香后的三个小时内使用生大蒜或生蒜

汁，或者您需要来自信誉良好的来源的优质大蒜提取物。适当干燥的大蒜粉也可用于内部抗生素应

用，尽管在使用之前粉末中仅残留微量大蒜素。在这种情况下，两种化合物，蒜氨酸和蒜酶，在进

入口腔时与酶相遇形成大蒜素。然后大蒜素在体内从内到外发挥作用。

If you use garlic as a topical antibiotic, bear in mind that raw garlic juice is strong and may cause acute reddening

and irritation of skin and mucous membranes if applied undiluted. Cut the juice with olive oil, vegetable glycerin, or

=== PAGE 191 ===
water at a starting rate of one part pure garlic juice to two parts inert liquid (oil, water, etc.). If irritation persists,

further dilute the juice. Such problems can be avoided by infusing fresh cloves of garlic directly into olive oil.

如果您使用大蒜作为局部抗生素，请记住，生蒜汁的味道很浓，如果未稀释就使用，可能会导致皮肤和粘

膜急性发红和刺激。用橄榄油、植物甘油或水切汁，起始比例为一份纯大蒜汁与两份惰性液体（油、水

等）。如果刺激持续存在，请进一步稀释果汁。通过将新鲜大蒜直接注入橄榄油中可以避免此类问题。

• If you wish to use garlic as a cancer-inhibiting antioxidant agent, immunesystem enhancer, blood-thinning

agent, cardiovascular tonic, or nutritional supplement, any form of garlic will probably have the desired

results. Perhaps the only exceptions are preparations of garlic that have been subjected to heat such as

pickled, sautéed, boiled, roasted, or otherwise hyperheated cloves that have likely been depleted of their

medicinal potential and a considerable percentage of their nutrients.

• 如果您希望使用大蒜作为抗癌抗氧化剂、免疫系统增强剂、血液稀释剂、心血管补品或营养补充剂，

任何形式的大蒜都可能达到预期效果。也许唯一的例外是经过加热（例如腌制、炒、煮、烤）的大

蒜制品，或其他过热的丁香，这些大蒜的药用潜力和相当大比例的营养成分可能已经耗尽。

Used properly and in the correct form, garlic is valuable for treatment of virtually any form of internal or external

bacterial, viral, or fungal infection, including parasites (such as tapeworms) and protozoan organisms (such as

Giardia). Fresh garlic or properly dried powder (from a reputable market source) can be fed as part of your animal’s

diet to fight infections of the mouth, throat, respiratory tract, stomach, or intestines. In sheep, goats, and cows, it is

said to help alleviate mastitis. Freshly crushed garlic or fresh garlic juice can be infused or diluted into olive oil for

use as a topical antiseptic for minor injuries, ear infections, or mites. The rule here is to be sure the garlic is diluted

sufficiently—the volatile oils are strong and can cause burning irritation if applied to the skin in concentrated form.

Never apply essential oil of garlic to any part of the body; it’s too concentrated. And never use garlic preparations in

the eyes.

如果使用得当且形式正确，大蒜对于治疗几乎任何形式的内部或外部细菌、病毒或真菌感染都很有价值，

包括寄生虫（如绦虫）和原生动物（如贾第鞭毛虫）。新鲜大蒜或适当干燥的粉末（来自信誉良好的市场

来源）可以作为动物饮食的一部分，以对抗口腔、喉咙、呼吸道、胃或肠道的感染。据说它有助于缓解绵

羊、山羊和牛的乳腺炎。新鲜压碎的大蒜或新鲜大蒜汁可以注入或稀释到橄榄油中，用作轻伤、耳部感染

或螨虫的局部防腐剂。这里的规则是确保大蒜被充分稀释——挥发油很强，如果以浓缩形式涂在皮肤上会

引起灼烧刺激。切勿将大蒜精油涂抹在身体的任何部位；太集中了。切勿在眼睛中使用大蒜制剂。

To use in topical applications, you don’t need much garlic—just enough to impart a mild garlic odor to the oil. To

make a garlic oil, crush two or three cloves of garlic, wet them with vodka to help release the oils, and cover them

with 4 ounces of olive oil. Shake the mixture vigorously and let it stand in the refrigerator for an hour before using.

The oil should have an obvious, but not overpowering, garlic odor. Within three to twenty-four hours, the allicin will

begin dissipating from your oil, and its usefulness for killing microbes will be diminished. But don’t discard it. It

still possesses immune-supporting and disease-preventing qualities, and it can be added to your pet’s meals. Use ½

to 1 level teaspoon per pound of food per feeding, depending on the oil’s strength. Keep your garlic oil in the

refrigerator in a glass jar with a tight-fitting lid. Expect it to keep for no more than a month. Contrary to what many

believe, garlic will not act as its own preservative, and old garlic oil may develop botulism—a bacteria that can be

deadly to animals and people. The added alcohol (vodka) is not enough to prevent botulism either, but adding ¼

teaspoon of vitamin E oil to the garlic oil before it goes into the refrigerator will help extend its shelf life while

adding a new element of nutritional support. As you can see, this justifies the task of making your own oil. Many

commercially prepared oils produced from raw garlic offer no information on how long they will remain fresh and

effective.

要用于局部应用，不需要太多大蒜，只要足以赋予油温和的大蒜气味即可。要制作大蒜油，请压碎两到

三瓣大蒜，用伏特加浸湿以帮助释放大蒜油，然后用 4 盎司橄榄油覆盖它们。使用前用力摇匀混合物并在

冰箱中静置一小时。油应具有明显但不浓烈的大蒜气味。三到二十四小时内，大蒜素就会开始从油中消

散，其杀死微生物的作用也会减弱。但不要丢弃它。它仍然具有支持免疫和预防疾病的特性，可以添加到

宠物的膳食中。每次喂食每磅食物使用 ½ 至 1 平茶匙，具体取决于油的浓度。将大蒜油存放在带密封盖的

玻璃罐中，并存放在冰箱中。预计其保存时间不会超过一个月。与许多人的看法相反，大蒜本身并不能起

到防腐剂的作用，而且陈旧的大蒜油可能会产生肉毒杆菌中毒——一种对动物和人类来说可能致命的细

菌。添加的酒精（伏特加）也不足以预防肉毒杆菌中毒，但在大蒜油放入冰箱之前添加 1/4 茶匙维生素 E

油将有助于延长其保质期，同时添加新的营养支持元素。正如您所看到的，这证明了自己生产石油的任务

=== PAGE 192 ===
是合理的。许多由生大蒜生产的商业制备油没有提供有关其保持新鲜和有效时间的信息。

Scientific studies have shown that various compounds in garlic stimulate immune functions in the bloodstream at

levels of activity that are unparalleled by any other herb (yes, even by echinacea). Perhaps most intriguing is garlic’s

effect on the body’s natural killer cells—those cells that seek out and destroy cancer cells and invading microbes. In

a study conducted with human subjects who have AIDS, garlic was found to increase killer cell activity threefold.

Similar animal studies have been conducted with similar results. Given the fact that these studies were done on

subjects with depressed immune functions, it stands to reason that companion animals with healthy immune

functions may benefit from the added measure of immune support supplied through moderate garlic

supplementation in their diets.

科学研究表明，大蒜中的各种化合物可以刺激血液中的免疫功能，其活性水平是任何其他草药（是的，

甚至紫锥菊）都无法比拟的。也许最有趣的是大蒜对人体自然杀伤细胞的影响，这些细胞寻找并摧毁癌细

胞和入侵微生物。在对患有艾滋病的人类受试者进行的一项研究中，发现大蒜可以使杀伤细胞活性增加三

倍。类似的动物研究也得到了类似的结果。鉴于这些研究是针对免疫功能低下的受试者进行的，因此有理

由认为，具有健康免疫功能的伴侣动物可能会受益于通过在饮食中适量补充大蒜而提供的额外免疫支持措

施。

A 1988 study found that diallyl sulfide, a garlic constituent, prevented tumor formation in rats, and several other

studies have shown that garlic inhibits various forms of cancerous growths in the body. This effect may be

attributable to the liver-strengthening actions of at least six garlic components. In this capacity, garlic gently

enhances overall liver function and triggers enzyme responses to help break down waste materials before they go

into the bloodstream. In other words, garlic helps the liver cleanse the body and thus helps prevent toxic

accumulations that may lead to cancerous growths. Garlic also helps to lower blood cholesterol and triglyceride

levels, making it useful for miniature schnauzers, beagles, and other breeds that may be predisposed to

hyperlipidemia—a condition that may lead to chronic seizures. Any form of uncooked garlic performs these

functions, and its use is as simple as sprinkling it onto an animal’s food. A once-a-day dosage of ⅛–¼ teaspoon

(powdered or freshly chopped) per pound of food fed is usually sufficient for most animals.

1988 年的一项研究发现，大蒜的一种成分二烯丙基硫醚可以预防大鼠肿瘤的形成，其他几项研究也表明

大蒜可以抑制体内各种形式的癌症生长。这种作用可能归因于至少六种大蒜成分的强化肝脏作用。通过这

种能力，大蒜可以温和地增强整体肝功能，并引发酶反应，帮助在废物进入血液之前将其分解。换句话

说，大蒜有助于肝脏净化身体，从而有助于防止可能导致癌症生长的毒素积累。大蒜还有助于降低血液胆

固醇和甘油三酯水平，这对于迷你雪纳瑞、比格犬和其他可能易患高脂血症的品种非常有用，高脂血症可

能导致慢性癫痫发作。任何形式的生大蒜都具有这些功能，其使用方法就像将其撒在动物的食物上一样简

单。对于大多数动物来说，每天一次的剂量为每磅食物 ⅛–¼ 茶匙（粉末或新鲜切碎）。

We have seen very good results from the use of garlic against tapeworms. Used in powdered, fresh, or extract

forms, garlic might not kill these persistent parasites, but it will make their living quarters much less desirable.

Intestinal parasites don’t seem to like volatile oils or sulfur compounds, and if fed to an animal in correct dosages

over a period of one to two months, garlic helps to drive these pests out. In our experiences with dogs, an increase in

visible tapeworm segments in an animal’s stool is likely to occur after two to three weeks of daily garlic ingestion.

After about two months, populations of these parasites are usually back to acceptable levels, or they may disappear

completely.

我们已经看到使用大蒜对抗绦虫的效果非常好。以粉末、新鲜或提取物的形式使用大蒜可能不会杀死这

些持久性寄生虫，但会使它们的居住环境变得不太理想。肠道寄生虫似乎不喜欢挥发油或硫化合物，如果

在一到两个月内以正确剂量喂给动物，大蒜有助于驱除这些害虫。根据我们对狗的经验，每天摄入大蒜两

到三周后，动物粪便中可见的绦虫片段可能会增加。大约两个月后，这些寄生虫的数量通常会恢复到可接

受的水平，或者可能完全消失。

Garlic works in a similar fashion against protozoan infestations such as giardiasis, but in these cases a strong

presence of allicin is needed to be effective. Use fresh garlic and add Oregon grape root to your animal’s diet. This

adds an antimicrobial “double punch” against these tough organisms.

大蒜以类似的方式对抗贾第鞭毛虫病等原生动物感染，但在这些情况下，需要大量大蒜素才能有效。使

用新鲜大蒜并将俄勒冈葡萄根添加到动物的饮食中。这增加了针对这些顽固微生物的抗菌“双重打击”。

Garlic is one of the best all-around cardiovascular tonics in the plant world. In studies conducted in collaboration

with the New York Department of Health, a component called ajoene found in both fresh and dried forms of garlic

=== PAGE 193 ===
was found to be effective at preventing the formation of blood clots in the vascular system. In some provinces of

France, racehorses suffering from blood clots are routinely fed garlic in their grain feed, and, as a result, the clots

sometimes disappear in a matter of days. In fact, many researchers believe that garlic may be as useful as aspirin in

this capacity, which makes it especially promising for use in cats since they cannot tolerate the salicylate

constituents of aspirin. Garlic has also been shown to reduce cholesterol levels and the occurrence of atherosclerosis

(fat buildup in the arteries) in both animals and humans, thus reducing the possibility of stroke or heart attack. All of

these attributes, combined with the immune-supportive, liver-strengthening capabilities of garlic, make this herb an

excellent multisystem tonic for older animals—especially dogs, who tolerate regular feeding of garlic better than

cats do.

大蒜是植物界最好的全能心血管补品之一。在与纽约卫生部合作进行的研究中，发现在新鲜和干燥大蒜

中发现的一种称为阿霍烯的成分可以有效防止血管系统中血栓的形成。在法国的一些省份，患有血栓的赛

马通常在谷物饲料中添加大蒜，因此血栓有时会在几天内消失。事实上，许多研究人员认为，大蒜在这方

面可能与阿司匹林一样有用，这使得它特别适合用于猫，因为它们不能耐受阿司匹林的水杨酸盐成分。大

蒜还被证明可以降低动物和人类的胆固醇水平和动脉粥样硬化（动脉中脂肪堆积）的发生，从而降低中风

或心脏病发作的可能性。所有这些特性，再加上大蒜的免疫支持和增强肝脏的功能，使这种草药成为老年

动物的极佳多系统补品，尤其是狗，它们比猫更能耐受定期喂食大蒜。

Garlic’s effectiveness as a systemic flea or mosquito repellent is the subject of a great deal of debate among those

who have tried it. Some people claim good results; others believe that the usefulness of garlic in this capacity is

largely unfounded.

大蒜作为全身性跳蚤或蚊子驱避剂的有效性在尝试过大蒜的人中引起了大量争论。有些人声称效果很

好；有些人声称效果很好。其他人则认为大蒜的这种用途在很大程度上是没有根据的。

Availability: Supermarkets and health food retailers

可获得性：超市和保健食品零售商

Propagation and Harvest: Garlic is easy to grow. When sown in the fall, the plants thrive in even the harshest of

winter climates, usually producing bulbs by late summer. A sandy loam with a slightly alkaline pH level is the best

growing medium. In areas where winters are mild, the cloves can be pressed about 1 inch into the soil in late fall for

an early summer crop. In northern climes, plant your cloves 4 inches deep as late as you can still work the soil in

fall. Cover your planting with at least 6 inches of mulch. Expect to see sprouts shortly after the last hard frost. Garlic

should be harvested in midsummer to late summer, after the tops of the plants have died back. Dig up the bulbs, then

allow them to dry in the sun for two or three days before you store them in a cool, dry place indoors.

繁殖和收获：大蒜很容易生长。当秋天播种时，这些植物即使在最严酷的冬季气候下也能茁壮成长，通常

在夏末就长出球茎。 pH值呈弱碱性的沙质壤土是最好的生长介质。在冬季温和的地区，可以在秋末将丁香

压入土壤约 1 英寸，以收获初夏作物。在北方气候下，在秋季仍能耕作土壤时，将丁香种植 4 英寸深。用

至少 6 英寸厚的覆盖物覆盖您的植物。预计在最后一次严霜之后不久就会看到新芽。大蒜应该在仲夏至夏

末收获，待植株顶部枯死后。挖出球茎，然后让它们在阳光下干燥两到三天，然后将它们存放在室内阴凉

干燥的地方。

Alternatives and Adjuncts: For topical treatment of bacterial infections, consider Oregon grape, Saint-John’s-wort,

bee balm, thyme, and chamomile as alternatives. For immune system and antioxidant support, investigate echinacea,

astragalus, licorice, alfalfa, red clover, and burdock as adjuncts or alternatives. For treating giardiasis and E. coli

infections, garlic combines well with Oregon grape or organically raised goldenseal.

替代品和辅助剂：对于细菌感染的局部治疗，可以考虑使用俄勒冈葡萄、圣约翰草、蜂香膏、百里香和洋

甘菊作为替代品。对于免疫系统和抗氧化支持，研究紫锥菊、黄芪、甘草、苜蓿、红三叶草和牛蒡作为辅

助剂或替代品。为了治疗贾第鞭毛虫病和大肠杆菌感染，大蒜与俄勒冈州葡萄或有机饲养的毛茛完美结

合。

Cautions and Comments: Toxic side effects from the consumption of garlic are rare in animals and humans alike,

=== PAGE 194 ===
but the possibility of harming your dog, your cat, or your herbivore with garlic does exist, and there is a growing

controversy about how much garlic is enough and how much is too much. At the root of this controversy is a

dangerous misconception: the notion that more garlic is always better. Despite all of the grand attributes we have

just described, moderation—the cardinal rule of all herb use—applies strictly to garlic, particularly when it is used in

cats.

注意和评论：食用大蒜产生的毒副作用在动物和人类中都很少见，但大蒜伤害你的狗、猫或食草动物的可

能性确实存在，并且关于大蒜的摄入量存在越来越多的争议足够了，多少就太多了。这场争论的根源是一

个危险的误解：认为大蒜越多越好。尽管我们刚刚描述了大蒜的所有重要属性，但适量（所有草药使用的

基本规则）严格适用于大蒜，特别是当它用于猫时。

When misused (used excessively or over an extended period), garlic may cause Heinz-body anemia, a potentially

life-threatening blood disease. Scientists theorize that two chemical compounds contained in garlic may be related to

this disorder: s-methyl cysteine sulfoxide, or n-propyl disuldhide. These compounds are believed to deplete a

naturally occurring glucose enzyme called Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD). This enzyme has a special

function of protecting the walls of red blood cells. Depletion of G6PD causes oxidative damage to the cells, thus

forming Heinz bodies and triggering the body to reject them from the bloodstream (usually via dark-colored urine).

If left unchecked, this process continues until the numbers of red blood cells are lowered to the point that the animal

becomes anemic and eventually dies. Fortunately, this nightmare is easily prevented with some common sense and a

few precautions.

如果误用（过量或长时间使用），大蒜可能会导致亨氏体贫血，这是一种可能危及生命的血液疾病。科

学家推测，大蒜中含有的两种化合物可能与这种疾病有关：s-甲基半胱氨酸亚砜或正丙基二硫醚。这些化合

物被认为会消耗一种天然存在的葡萄糖酶，称为葡萄糖-6-磷酸脱氢酶（G6PD）。这种酶具有保护红细胞壁

的特殊功能。 G6PD 的消耗会对细胞造成氧化损伤，从而形成亨氏小体并触发身体将其从血液中排出（通

常通过深色尿液）。如果不加以控制，这个过程会持续下去，直到红细胞数量降低到动物贫血并最终死亡

的程度。幸运的是，通过一些常识和一些预防措施，这个噩梦很容易避免。

Other side effects of garlic are more predictable and less threatening: digestive upset and gas when ingested (in

which case, reduce the dose and relieve the gas with chamomile) or redness and irritation when applied to the skin

(usually indicative of a preparation that is too concentrated).

大蒜的其他副作用更可预测且威胁较小：摄入时消化不良和胀气（在这种情况下，减少剂量并用洋甘菊

缓解胀气）或涂在皮肤上时发红和刺激（通常表明制剂是太集中）。

First, it stands to reason that animals with preexisting anemic conditions should not receive garlic internally in

any quantity. Puppies don’t begin reproducing new red blood cells until after six to eight weeks of age. Until then,

they need every red blood cell they are born with, so a diet that includes garlic is not appropriate for young puppies.

首先，按理说，患有贫血症的动物不应内服任何数量的大蒜。幼犬直到六到八周龄后才开始繁殖新的红

细胞。在那之前，它们需要与生俱来的每一个红细胞，因此包含大蒜的饮食不适合幼犬。

It’s important to know that the possibility of Heinz-body anemia is dose dependent, meaning the more garlic fed,

the greater the chances of a problem developing. While we still don’t know exactly how much is too much, most

recorded instances of Heinz-body anemia in animals involve the ingestion of large quantities of onions and other

garlic relatives, many of which are likely to contain much larger percentages of enzyme-depleting constituents than

a typical dose of garlic. Recorded cases of allium poisoning typically involve onion doses exceeding 0.5 percent of

the subject animals’ body weight—this means that a healthy 60-pound dog would have to eat a whole 5-ounce

onion, or several cloves of garlic, just to start the Heinz-body process. And since red blood cells are regenerated

quickly from the bone marrow, this grotesque overdose would probably have to be repeated several times on a

frequent basis to cause permanent harm. In further defense of garlic, several other foods can cause Heinz-body

anemia as well—large amounts of turnips, kale, rape, or anything rich in vitamin K may lead to the disorder,

especially in herbivores.

重要的是要知道亨氏小体贫血的可能性是剂量依赖性的，这意味着大蒜喂得越多，出现问题的可能性就

越大。虽然我们仍然不知道到底多少才算过量，但大多数有记录的动物亨氏小体贫血病例都涉及摄入大量

洋葱和其他大蒜亲戚，其中许多可能含有更高比例的酶-比典型剂量的大蒜消耗的成分。记录的葱中毒案例

通常涉及超过受试动物体重 0.5% 的洋葱剂量，这意味着一只 60 磅重的健康狗必须吃掉一整颗 5 盎司的洋

葱或几瓣大蒜，才能开始中毒。亨氏体过程。由于红细胞可以从骨髓中快速再生，这种奇怪的过量用药可

能需要经常重复几次才能造成永久性伤害。为了进一步保护大蒜，其他几种食物也会导致亨氏体贫血——

=== PAGE 195 ===
大量的萝卜、羽衣甘蓝、油菜或任何富含维生素 K 的食物都可能导致这种疾病，尤其是食草动物。

Small doses of garlic added to your companion animal’s food three or four days per week, perhaps 1/8 teaspoon

of garlic powder per pound of food fed, are probably going to be of great benefit to the overall health of your pet.

Just don’t overdo it.

每周三到四天在伴侣动物的食物中添加小剂量的大蒜，大约每磅食物添加 1/8 茶匙大蒜粉，可能会对宠物

的整体健康大有裨益。只是不要做得太过分。

Cats are much more sensitive to the side effects of garlic than dogs are, so they require more caution and attention

with its use. Watch for digestive upset and behavioral changes. And if your cat simply doesn’t want any garlic, don’t

force the issue. Your cat’s behavior may be more than just a finicky attitude—animals know their needs better than

we do.

猫对大蒜的副作用比狗更敏感，因此在使用大蒜时需要更加谨慎和注意。留意消化不良和行为变化。如

果你的猫根本不想要大蒜，不要强迫它。猫的行为可能不仅仅是一种挑剔的态度——动物比我们更了解自

己的需求。

Remember to use common sense and moderation and to have respect for garlic as more than just a table

condiment. No two animals are alike; one person’s miracle cure is another one’s poison. If you wish to use garlic in

a therapeutic capacity, get to know your animal first, then consult a professional (or carefully read the label on your

garlic product) before you proceed.

请记住使用常识和适度，并尊重大蒜不仅仅是一种餐桌调味品。没有两种动物是相同的；一个人的灵丹

妙药却是另一个人的毒药。如果您希望使用大蒜进行治疗，请先了解您的动物，然后在继续之前咨询专业

人士（或仔细阅读大蒜产品上的标签）。

=== PAGE 196 ===
GINKGO

银杏

Ginkgo biloba

银杏叶

Ginkgo Family

银杏家族

Appearance: Characterized by its unique fan-shaped leaves, ginkgo is a slow-growing tree that may reach 100 feet

in height. A healthy tree can live to be one thousand years old. Ginkgo is one of the oldest plant medicines on earth.

In fact, it is one of the oldest species of trees still in existence.

外观：银杏树以其独特的扇形叶子为特征，是一种生长缓慢的树，最高可达 100 英尺。一棵健康的树可以

活到一千年。银杏是地球上最古老的植物药之一。事实上，它是现存最古老的树种之一。

Habitat and Range: It is estimated that the Ginkgo genus once included several hundred varieties that spanned the

globe for over two million years. Today, however, there is only one species, G. biloba, a native of China that has

been introduced into North America and most of Europe and Asia for ornamental and medicinal purposes.

栖息地和分布范围：据估计，银杏属曾经包括数百个品种，分布于全球超过两百万年。然而，如今只有一

种银杏，原产于中国，已被引入北美以及欧洲和亚洲大部分地区用于观赏和药用。

Cycle and Bloom Season: Ginkgo is a deciduous tree that blooms in early spring, just as the leaves are beginning to

develop into their fanlike shapes. Fruits (known as ginkgo nuts) develop and ripen by midsummer. The leaves turn

yellow and begin falling in early to late fall.

周期和开花季节：银杏是一种落叶树，在早春开花，此时叶子开始发育成扇形。果实（称为银杏果）在仲

夏发育并成熟。叶子变黄，并在初秋至晚秋开始掉落。

Parts Used: Although ginkgo nuts were used almost exclusively for thousands of years, the fall-harvested leaves are

of primary interest to contemporary herbalists.

使用部位：虽然数千年来几乎只使用银杏果，但当代草药学家对秋季收获的叶子最感兴趣。

Primary Medicinal Activities: Dilates blood vessels, anticoagulant, antioxidant, tonic

主要药用活性：扩张血管、抗凝、抗氧化、滋补

Strongest Affinities: Brain, circulatory system, eyes

最强的亲和力：大脑、循环系统、眼睛

Preparation: Tincture, tea, capsule

制剂：酊剂、茶、胶囊

Common Uses: Over four hundred scientific studies have been conducted to validate ginkgo’s effectiveness in both

=== PAGE 197 ===
animals and humans. In fact, in Germany and other European countries, G. biloba extract (commonly known as

GBE) is among the most frequently prescribed drugs of commerce.

常见用途：已经进行了四百多项科学研究来验证银杏对动物和人类的功效。事实上，在德国和其他欧洲国

家，银杏提取物（俗称 GBE）是最常用的商业处方药之一。

For a long time it was thought that almost all of ginkgo’s medicinal activity could be attributed to two groups of

chemical constituents: flavone glycosides and terpene lactones. Dozens of human and animal studies have shown

that these two groups of constituents act to improve blood circulation in small capillaries, a trait that makes gingko

especially useful in the treatment of various forms of vascular deficiency—including the effects of old age. But

current research indicates that these compounds represent only a small part of a complex array of interactive

components. Specifically, ginkgo inhibits the platelet aggregation factor (PAF), the mechanism that causes slow-

moving or obstructed blood to become “sticky” and begin forming into clots. Ginkgo does this especially well in

small capillaries that are particularly susceptible to blockage and that serve tissues that are not reached by larger

vessels such as areas of the brain, ears, and extremities. Ginkgo also helps regulate the tone and elasticity of blood

vessels, making them stronger and less susceptible to degenerative disease. These actions make ginkgo a first choice

cerebrovascular tonic for older animals. Increased blood flow in capillary-rich tissues of the brain means that the

brain is better fed and oxygenated, which in turn can reduce the likelihood of stroke and may equate to a longer,

higher-quality life for your pet. In fact, several studies have shown that the cerebrovascular activities of ginkgo may

be beneficial in treating degenerative age-related cases of chronic depression or abnormal behavior. If the brain is

not getting the blood it needs, mood and behavior will likely be affected—and Rover might start getting rather

snippy in his old age.

长期以来，人们认为银杏几乎所有的药用活性都可以归因于两组化学成分：黄酮苷和萜内酯。数十项人

类和动物研究表明，这两类成分可以改善小毛细血管的血液循环，这一特性使银杏在治疗各种形式的血管

缺陷（包括老年影响）方面特别有用。但目前的研究表明，这些化合物仅代表一系列复杂的相互作用成分

的一小部分。具体来说，银杏可以抑制血小板聚集因子（PAF），这种机制会导致流动缓慢或阻塞的血液

变得“粘稠”并开始形成凝块。银杏在小毛细血管中尤其有效，这些毛细血管特别容易堵塞，并且服务于较

大血管无法到达的组织，例如大脑、耳朵和四肢区域。银杏还有助于调节血管的张力和弹性，使它们更强

壮，不易患退行性疾病。这些作用使银杏成为老年动物的首选脑血管补品。富含毛细血管的大脑组织中的

血流量增加意味着大脑得到更好的喂养和充氧，这反过来又可以降低中风的可能性，并可能相当于您的宠

物的寿命更长、质量更高。事实上，多项研究表明，银杏的脑血管活性可能有益于治疗与年龄相关的慢性

抑郁症或异常行为的退化病例。如果大脑无法获得所需的血液，情绪和行为可能会受到影响，而罗弗在晚

年可能会开始变得脾气暴躁。

Most of the current hoopla surrounding ginkgo is focused on its use in the treatment of Alzheimer’s disease and

other forms of dementia, but its effectiveness as a vascular tonic in other parts of the body deserves equal

consideration. Ginkgo works as an effective vascular tonic throughout the body, especially in smaller, peripheral

capillaries of the legs, ears, and rectum. This makes it useful in a wide variety of circumstances where circulation

has been impaired by trauma, chronic or degenerative disease, or surgical intervention. By opening up and

strengthening the structural integrity of small capillaries in impaired areas, gingko improves circulation and enables

the body to heal itself more effectively, which is the primary goal of using herbal tonics.

当前围绕银杏的大部分宣传都集中在其用于治疗阿尔茨海默病和其他形式的痴呆症上，但其作为身体其

他部位血管补品的功效也值得同等考虑。银杏是一种有效的全身血管补品，特别是在腿部、耳朵和直肠的

较小的外围毛细血管中。这使得它在因创伤、慢性或退行性疾病或手术干预而导致循环受损的各种情况下

都很有用。通过打开和加强受损区域小毛细血管的结构完整性，银杏可以改善血液循环，使身体更有效地

自我修复，这是使用草药滋补品的主要目标。

Ginkgo also has been used for hundreds of years as a tonic for weak kidney function. While relatively little

research has been conducted to validate such use, ginkgo’s effectiveness in this capacity is likely attributable to the

same vascular tonic activities since the kidney is a blood-dependent organ. In fact, its vulnerability and demise in the

event of diminished blood supply is second only to the brain. In recent months, we have heard from veterinarians

and pet owners who have been using an herbal combination that includes ginkgo and hawthorn in the treatment of

early-stage renal failure. The anecdotal reports claim a general improvement in kidney function. This makes sense

because hawthorn acts to reduce blood pressure as it increases circulation within the larger arteries, while ginkgo

serves to open and tonify the smaller vessels.

=== PAGE 198 ===
数百年来，银杏一直被用作肾功能虚弱的补品。虽然验证这种用途的研究相对较少，但银杏在这种能力

方面的有效性可能归因于相同的血管强直活动，因为肾脏是一个血液依赖性器官。事实上，当血液供应减

少时，其脆弱性和死亡仅次于大脑。近几个月来，我们从兽医和宠物主人那里听说，他们一直在使用银杏

和山楂的草药组合来治疗早期肾衰竭。传闻称肾功能总体改善。这是有道理的，因为山楂可以增加大动脉

内的循环，从而降低血压，而银杏则可以打开和强化较小的血管。

Ginkgo biloba

银杏叶

In addition to its vascular actions, ginkgo also works as a nervous system tonic in the brain. Although the

mechanisms of its neurological activity are complex and still hold many mysteries, studies indicate that ginkgo

somehow increases energy levels in the brain and stimulates the release of various neurotransmitters, many of which

regulate constriction of important smooth-muscle tissues throughout the body—such as those of the heart, bladder,

and uterus. The fact that ginkgo works to influence brain function in ways that are exclusive of its circulatory

activities makes for a broad scope of therapeutic usefulness. In many cases, urinary incontinence, seizures, various

forms of neuralgia, skin problems, chronic digestive upset, cardiac arrhythmia, and behavioral disorders (to name

just a few) may be the result of cerebrovascular or neurological dysfunction that might be relieved with the proper

use of ginkgo.

除了其血管作用外，银杏还可以作为大脑神经系统的滋补剂。尽管其神经活动的机制很复杂并且仍然存

在许多谜团，但研究表明银杏以某种方式增加大脑的能量水平并刺激各种神经递质的释放，其中许多神经

递质调节全身重要平滑肌组织的收缩，例如如心脏、膀胱和子宫。银杏以循环活动之外的方式影响大脑功

能，这一事实使其具有广泛的治疗用途。在许多情况下，尿失禁、癫痫发作、各种形式的神经痛、皮肤问

题、慢性消化不良、心律失常和行为障碍（仅举几例）可能是脑血管或神经功能障碍的结果，通过适当的

治疗可以缓解这些功能障碍。使用银杏。

Many studies suggest that GBEs have been standardized to contain at least 24 percent ginkgolides. In our opinion,

however, excellent results can be obtained from any high-quality extract of the leaves. A typical dose for elderly

animals or for those who exhibit early signs of cerebrovascular deficiency, kidney failure, or impaired circulation in

=== PAGE 199 ===
the extremities is anywhere between 0.25 milliliters and 0.75 milliliters of the liquid extract, two or three times daily

for each 50 pounds of the animal’s body weight. Exact dosage varies according to the specific circumstances of

disease, size of the animal, potency of the extract, and duration of use. In other words, you are advised to seek a

qualified holistic practitioner for a complete workup of your animal before proceeding with ginkgo therapy.

许多研究表明，GBE 已标准化为含有至少 24% 的银杏内酯。然而，我们认为，任何高质量的叶子提取物

都可以获得优异的结果。对于老年动物或表现出脑血管缺陷、肾衰竭或四肢循环受损早期症状的动物，典

型剂量为 0.25 毫升至 0.75 毫升液体提取物，每 50 磅每日 2 至 3 次。动物的体重。确切的剂量根据疾病的

具体情况、动物的大小、提取物的效力和使用时间而有所不同。换句话说，建议您在进行银杏疗法之前先

寻求合格的整体医生对您的动物进行全面检查。

Availability: Widely available through health food stores and herb retailers. Ginkgo trees are available through

landscape nurseries.

可获得性：可通过保健食品商店和草药零售商广泛购买。银杏树可通过景观苗圃获得。

Propagation and Harvest: Ginkgo trees are not difficult to grow—all they need is room to spread their roots, a

moderate climate (hardy in the southern two-thirds of North America), and some water from time to time. The

problem is that they are slow growers, with yearly growth often measured in fractions of an inch. If you are lucky

enough to have access to a mature ginkgo tree, however, take advantage of the fresh leaves, which are far superior to

the dried leaves that are available at herb stores. Analysis of ginkgo leaves indicates that the broadest diversity of

medicinal constituents is found when the leaves are just beginning to turn yellow (in the fall). Gather the leaves just

as they are turning yellow, before they fall from the tree and in advance of any evidence of mold on the leaf

surfaces. The leaves can then be used fresh to make tincture, or they can be dried for future use. The dried leaves

keep for about one year.

繁殖和收获：银杏树的生长并不困难——它们所需要的只是伸展根部的空间、温和的气候（北美南部三分

之二的地区耐寒）以及时不时的一些水。问题是它们的生长速度很慢，每年的生长速度通常只有不到一英

寸。然而，如果您足够幸运能够接触到一棵成熟的银杏树，那么可以利用新鲜的叶子，它们比药草店里出

售的干叶子要好得多。对银杏叶的分析表明，当叶子刚刚开始变黄（秋天）时，发现了最广泛的药用成分

多样性。在叶子变黄时、在叶子从树上掉落之前以及在叶子表面出现任何霉菌迹象之前收集叶子。然后可

以用新鲜的叶子来制作酊剂，或者可以将它们干燥以供将来使用。干燥的叶子可以保存一年左右。

Alternatives and Adjuncts: Gingko combines well with hawthorn for cardiovascular or kidney disorders. For use

as a general vascular tonic, ginkgo can be combined with garlic, cayenne, or yarrow.

替代品和辅助品：银杏与山楂完美搭配，可治疗心血管或肾脏疾病。作为一般血管补品，银杏可以与大

蒜、辣椒或西洋蓍草混合使用。

Cautions and Comments: By most standards, ginkgo is safe. But because of its ability to inhibit platelet

aggregation in the blood, its use may be contraindicated in the presence of blood-thinning drugs or in animals with

blood-clotting disorders. While ginkgo improves the body’s ability to heal after surgery, its use should be delayed

until all risk of postoperative hemorrhage has passed.

注意事项和评论：按照大多数标准，银杏是安全的。但由于它能够抑制血液中的血小板聚集，因此在存在

血液稀释药物或患有凝血障碍的动物中可能禁忌使用它。虽然银杏可以提高身体术后愈合的能力，但应推

迟使用它，直到所有术后出血的风险都过去。

=== PAGE 200 ===
GOLDENROD

金棒

Solidago spp.

一枝黄花属

Sunflower Family

向日葵家族

Appearance: Goldenrod is a common wayside weed that is easy to identify by its spire-shaped or triangular clusters

of tiny bright goldenrod-yellow flowers. The leaves of the most common species are narrowly lance-shaped and may

or may not have serrated edges. Plants are erect and range from 2 inches (Solidago multiradiata—mountain

goldenrod) to 70 inches (S. canadensis; S. occidentalis; S. gigantea) in height. Most species share similar

appearances. This is especially true of the larger species, which may differ only in leaf texture or the presence of

stem hairs.

外观：黄花是一种常见的路边杂草，很容易通过其尖顶状或三角形的小明亮黄花花簇来识别。最常见物种

的叶子呈窄矛状，可能有也可能没有锯齿状边缘。植物直立，高度从 2 英寸（一枝黄花——山黄花）到 70

英寸（加拿大一枝黄花、西方一枝黄花、巨花一枝黄花）不等。大多数物种都有相似的外观。对于较大的

物种尤其如此，它们可能仅在叶子纹理或茎毛的存在上有所不同。

Habitat and Range: The Solidago genus can be divided into two categories: those that grow in moist soils and

those that prefer drier habitats. Generally speaking, most of the smaller mountain varieties are found in dry soils,

often at the edges of forest roads or in open meadows. The larger varieties are common to river and lake habitats,

irrigated fields, drainage ditches, and so on, from below sea level to about 4,000 feet in elevation. Several species

are widespread throughout North America, with S. canadensis (Canada goldenrod) being perhaps the most common.

栖息地和范围：一枝黄花属可分为两类：生长在潮湿土壤中的一类和喜欢干燥栖息地的一类。一般来说，

大多数较小的山地品种都生长在干燥的土壤中，通常在森林道路的边缘或开阔的草地上。较大的品种常见

于河流和湖泊栖息地、灌溉田、排水沟等，从海平面以下到海拔约 4,000 英尺。有几种物种在北美广泛分

布，其中加拿大黄花（S. canadensis）可能是最常见的。

Cycle and Bloom Season: Perennial, sometimes annual. Blooms throughout the summer months

周期和开花季节：多年生，有时是一年生。整个夏季都盛开

Parts Used: Entire flowering plant—roots and all

使用部分：整个开花植物——根部和所有部分

Primary Medicinal Activities: Astringent, tonic, diuretic, reduces inflammation of respiratory mucosa

(anticatarrhal), strengthens kidney functions (nephritic), anti-inflammatory, helps prevent or eliminate urinary stones

(antilithic), antibacterial, antifungal, stops bleeding

主要药用活性：收敛剂、滋补剂、利尿剂、减少呼吸道粘膜炎症（抗卡他）、增强肾功能（肾炎）、抗

炎、帮助预防或消除尿路结石（抗结石）、抗菌、抗真菌、止血

Strongest Affinities: Respiratory tract, urinary tract, and kidneys

=== PAGE 201 ===
最强的亲和力：呼吸道、泌尿道和肾脏

Preparation: Dried herb, tincture, tea

准备：干草药、酊剂、茶

Common Uses: As with many common wayside weeds, goldenrod’s usefulness is usually overshadowed by that of

other herbs that have greater mass-market appeal. This is unfortunate because while many people spend their hard-

earned money on the latest herb sensation, a better alternative may be growing in profuse abundance just behind the

house. Goldenrod is one such herb. It is extremely useful but far less marketable than many others simply because it

is too abundant to give notice to.

常见用途：与许多常见的路边杂草一样，黄花的用途通常被其他具有更大大众市场吸引力的草药所掩盖。

这是不幸的，因为虽然许多人把辛苦赚来的钱花在最新的草药上，但更好的选择可能是在房子后面大量种

植。一枝黄花就是这样的一种草药。它非常有用，但远不如其他许多产品有销路，只是因为它太多而难以

引起注意。

Goldenrod is an excellent anticatarrhal, an herb that helps to reduce the production of mucus in the bronchi by

decreasing inflammation of the mucous membranes. While the production of mucus is essential in the body’s

holistic efforts to eliminate pathogens and waste products from the respiratory tract during bacterial, viral, or fungal

infections, reducing the irritation of swollen membranes helps to comfort the sufferer while making the overall

healing effort more productive. For dogs and cats, a teaspoon or two of a flower or leaf tea (made with a teaspoon of

the dried herb in 8 ounces of water, cooled to lukewarm) often brings quick relief for a persistent wet cough. Horses

and other large herbivores can be fed a handful or two of the fresh herb for the same purpose.

一枝黄花是一种极好的抗卡他药，它是一种通过减少粘膜炎症来帮助减少支气管粘液产生的草药。虽然

粘液的产生对于身体在细菌、病毒或真菌感染期间消除呼吸道中的病原体和废物的整体努力至关重要，但

减少肿胀的粘膜的刺激有助于安慰患者，同时使整体治疗工作更有成效。对于狗和猫来说，一两茶匙的花

茶或叶茶（用一茶匙的干草药与 8 盎司的水制成，冷却至微温）通常可以快速缓解持续的湿咳。出于同样

的目的，可以给马和其他大型食草动物喂一把或两把新鲜药草。

=== PAGE 202 ===
Solidago canadensis

加拿大一枝黄花

Although relatively little scientific research has been conducted into goldenrod’s effectiveness as a kidney tonic, it

has been used successfully in this capacity for hundreds of years. Specifically, goldenrod is said to boost renal

function quickly, making it especially helpful for acute cases of nephritis, especially where anuresis (an inability to

pass urine from the kidneys) is a prevalent symptom. Goldenrod can also be useful in preventing or assisting in the

elimination of kidney stones. However, the activities of goldenrod may be contraindicated in advanced chronic cases

of kidney disease, where stimulation of renal function may cause added stress to overworked kidneys. The various

mechanisms and pathologies of kidney disease are difficult to assess accurately, and finding the correct approach

should be left to your holistic veterinarian.

尽管对黄花作为补肾药的功效进行的科学研究相对较少，但它已经成功地使用了数百年。具体来说，黄

花据说可以快速增强肾功能，对急性肾炎特别有帮助，特别是在无尿（无法从肾脏排出尿液）为普遍症状

的情况下。一枝黄花还可用于预防或帮助消除肾结石。然而，在晚期慢性肾脏疾病中，黄花的活动可能是

禁忌的，因为刺激肾功能可能会给过度劳累的肾脏带来额外的压力。肾脏疾病的各种机制和病理学很难准

确评估，找到正确的方法应该留给您的整体兽医。

In topical applications, goldenrod has remarkable hemostatic qualities, especially when the dried and powdered

flowers are used. The powder can be applied liberally to stop bleeding and inhibit bacterial infection of minor cuts

and abrasions.

在局部应用中，一枝黄花具有显着的止血功效，特别是当使用干花和粉末时。大量涂抹粉末可止血并抑

制轻微割伤和擦伤的细菌感染。

Goldenrod may moderate allergic reactions to airborne pollen and other allergens if taken for several weeks prior

to the start of hay fever season.

如果在花粉热季节开始前几周服用一枝黄花，可能会减轻对空气中花粉和其他过敏原的过敏反应。

When a measured amount of goldenrod—a potentially allergenic plant—is introduced into the body just before

hay fever season, the body begins building its antiallergen defenses before the real onslaught.

=== PAGE 203 ===
当在花粉热季节之前将一定量的黄花（一种可能引起过敏的植物）引入体内时，身体会在真正的攻击之

前开始建立抗过敏防御系统。

Availability: Available through herb retailers; profusely abundant in vacant lots and forests throughout North

America, Europe, and Asia.

供货情况：可通过药草零售商购买；北美、欧洲和亚洲的空地和森林中资源丰富。

Propagation and Harvest: Harvest the entire plant when it is in full bloom. The entire plant can then be chopped

and made into a tincture, or it can be dried for later use in teas.

繁殖和收获：在盛开时收获整个植物。然后可以将整个植物切碎并制成酊剂，或者可以将其干燥以供以后

用于茶中。

Alternatives and Adjuncts: For upper respiratory infections, goldenrod combines especially well with echinacea

and Oregon grape. Consider mullein, coltsfoot, wild cherry, marshmallow, slippery elm, and grindelia as adjuncts or

alternatives for coughs. Dandelion, couch grass, corn silk, ginkgo, uva ursi, marshmallow, echinacea, and hawthorn

should be investigated for treating urinary and kidney disorders.

替代品和辅助剂：对于上呼吸道感染，黄花与紫锥菊和俄勒冈葡萄的结合效果特别好。考虑使用毛蕊花、

款冬、野樱桃、棉花糖、滑榆和银杏作为止咳的辅助剂或替代品。蒲公英、茅草、玉米须、银杏、熊果、

棉花糖、紫锥花和山楂可用于治疗泌尿和肾脏疾病。

Cautions and Comments: Goldenrod has no known toxicity but may be contraindicated in animals with certain

forms of kidney disease. Although goldenrod is not as allergenic as once thought (often it is blamed for allergies

caused by ragweed and other plants), it should be used with caution in animals who are predisposed to pollen

allergies.

注意事项和评论：一枝黄花没有已知的毒性，但可能禁忌用于患有某些形式的肾脏疾病的动物。虽然一枝

黄花并不像人们想象的那样容易引起过敏（通常人们认为它是由豚草和其他植物引起的过敏），但对于容

易对花粉过敏的动物来说，应谨慎使用它。

=== PAGE 204 ===
GOLDENSEAL

金印章

Hydrastis canadensis

加拿大水螅

Buttercup Family

毛茛家族

Appearance: Goldenseal is a perennial that may grow to 12 inches in height. The main stem of the plant is typically

forked to produce two nearly circular 2-inch to 6-inch-wide leaves, one of which is usually larger than the other. The

leaves are deeply lobed, five to seven times, with toothed margins. The plant may require three or more years of

growth before it blooms, then it produces a single whitish green flower that has no petals. In midsummer, the flower

develops into a single raspberry-like red fruit that contains ten to thirty small seeds. Stems are hairy. The

horizontally creeping root is thick and woody. All parts of the root have deep goldenrod-yellow inner tissues.

外观：金印草是一种多年生植物，可长至 12 英寸高。植物的主茎通常分叉，产生两片近圆形的 2 英寸至 6

英寸宽的叶子，其中一片通常比另一片大。叶子深裂，五到七次，边缘有齿。这种植物可能需要三年或更

长时间才能开花，然后开出一朵没有花瓣的白绿色花朵。在仲夏，花朵会发育成一个覆盆子状的红色果

实，其中含有十到三十颗小种子。茎有毛。水平匍匐根厚而木质。根部各部分均有深金黄色的内组织。

Habitat and Range: The range and population of this North American native are rapidly diminishing. The original

range of goldenseal once included most of eastern North America—from Minnesota and Vermont south into

Georgia. Today, most remaining stands of wild goldenseal are isolated in the central and northern reaches of the

Appalachians and, to a lesser extent, the Ozark Mountains.

栖息地和分布范围：这种北美原住民的分布范围和数量正在迅速减少。金印章的原始分布范围曾经包括北

美东部的大部分地区——从明尼苏达州和佛蒙特州南部到佐治亚州。如今，大部分剩余的野生金印草群都

被隔离在阿巴拉契亚山脉的中部和北部地区，以及较小范围内的奥扎克山脉。

Cycle and Bloom Season: A long-lived perennial that blooms in early spring

周期和开花季节：一种长寿的多年生植物，在早春开花

Parts Used: Primarily the root; to a lesser extent the leaves

使用部位：主要是根；叶子在较小程度上

Primary Medicinal Activities: Antimicrobial, reduces inflammation of respiratory mucosa, tonic, astringent,

stimulates the liver, antiparasitic

主要药用活性：抗菌、减少呼吸道粘膜炎症、滋补、收敛、刺激肝脏、抗寄生虫

Strongest Affinities: Mucous membranes of the respiratory tract, lower urinary tract, gastrointestinal tract, mouth,

and eyes.

最强的亲和力：呼吸道、下尿路、胃肠道、口腔和眼睛的粘膜。

=== PAGE 205 ===
Preparation: Tincture, tea, or poultice

制剂：酊剂、茶或膏剂

Common Uses: Wild goldenseal is vanishing because of greed, sensationalism, and misinformed use. The greatest

misconception about goldenseal is that it acts as an herbal antibiotic in the body, coursing its way through the body

systems via the bloodstream to attack any pathogenic microbes in its path. This is untrue. Goldenseal does not act as

an antibiotic. In fact, the antimicrobial alkaloids of this plant (namely berberine and hydrastine) act only to inhibit

bacteria, fungi, parasites, and protozoan bodies that they come in direct contact with in the mouth, gastrointestinal

tract, and urinary tract. These infection-fighting compounds are not absorbed into the bloodstream; they simply act

as contact disinfectants. With this in mind, goldenseal can be used against a broad spectrum of pathogens, including

Streptococcus sp., Staphylococcus sp., Shigella dysenteriae, Salmonella, and several others.

常见用途：由于贪婪、哗众取宠和误导性使用，野生金印草正在消失。关于白毛茛最大的误解是，它在体

内充当草药抗生素，通过血液流经身体系统，攻击其路径上的任何病原微生物。这是不真实的。白毛茛不

充当抗生素。事实上，这种植物的抗菌生物碱（即小檗碱和Hydrastine）仅能抑制口腔、胃肠道和泌尿道中

直接接触的细菌、真菌、寄生虫和原生动物体。这些抗感染化合物不会被吸收到血液中；它们只是充当接

触消毒剂。考虑到这一点，白毛茛可用于对抗多种病原体，包括链球菌属、葡萄球菌属、痢疾志贺氏菌、

沙门氏菌等。

Hydrastis candadensis

加拿大水螅

As an anti-inflammatory, goldenseal is effective for ulcers and irritations of the mouth, upper respiratory tract,

eyes, and, to a lesser degree, the digestive and urinary tracts. A poultice made from the powdered root can be

applied directly to infections or ulcers in the mouth. Results are often seen within hours of application.

作为一种抗炎药，白毛茛对口腔、上呼吸道、眼睛以及消化道和泌尿道的溃疡和刺激有效。由根粉制成

的膏剂可以直接应用于口腔感染或溃疡。通常在应用后数小时内即可看到结果。

=== PAGE 206 ===
For conjunctivitis that is secondary to bacterial or fungal infection in dogs, cats, birds, ferrets, rodents, horses, or

reptiles, a goldenseal eyewash serves as a strong antimicrobial agent and also quickly reduces inflammation and

redness. To use goldenseal in this capacity, make a strong tea from the chopped dry root, then add 12–20 drops of

the dark golden-yellow fluid into 1 ounce of sterile saline solution—the liquid marketed for people with contact

lenses. A few drops in each eye (or a fraction of a drop for small birds, rodents, and such) two or three times daily

usually brings relief quickly. Internally, we like to use goldenseal in conjunction with garlic for ridding our dogs and

cats of tapeworms, and we have received good reports from veterinarians we work with who find this combination

useful for treating giardiasis or E. coli infections in dogs, cats, and larger animals. Studies of the active component

berberine substantiate these claims.

对于狗、猫、鸟类、雪貂、啮齿动物、马或爬行动物继发于细菌或真菌感染的结膜炎，金印莲洗眼液可

作为强效抗菌剂，并能快速减少炎症和发红。要使用金毛茛的这种功能，请用切碎的干根泡一杯浓茶，然

后将 12-20 滴深金黄色液体加入到 1 盎司无菌盐水溶液中（这是一种专为戴隐形眼镜的人销售的液体）。

每只眼睛滴几滴（对于小鸟、啮齿类动物等，滴一小滴），每天两到三次，通常会很快缓解症状。在内

部，我们喜欢将白毛茛与大蒜结合使用来消灭我们的狗和猫的绦虫，并且我们收到了与我们合作的兽医的

良好报告，他们发现这种组合有助于治疗狗、猫和猫的贾第鞭毛虫病或大肠杆菌感染。较大的动物。对活

性成分小檗碱的研究证实了这些说法。

Wild goldenseal is one of the most endangered wild medicinal plants in North America, and it is still being

exploited by the “bad apples” of the herb industry. Fortunately, goldenseal can be replaced (in most cases) with

Oregon grape root (Mahonia aquifolium), a naturally abundant member of the barberry family that also contains an

impressive amount of the active constituent berberine. The continued survival of wild goldenseal is totally

dependent on human conscience and responsibility—if you think you need goldenseal, give Oregon grape a try first.

Chances are you will be pleased with the results. If you still see a need for goldenseal, spend the extra money to buy

goldenseal roots or goldenseal preparations that have come from certified organic (cultivated) sources. If you use

wildcrafted goldenseal, you are contributing to the rapid demise of a great healing treasure that can never be

replaced.

野生白毛茛是北美最濒危的野生药用植物之一，至今仍被药草业的“害群之马”所利用。幸运的是，在大

多数情况下，白毛茛可以用俄勒冈葡萄根（Mahonia aquifolium）替代，这是伏牛花家族中天然丰富的成

员，还含有大量的活性成分小檗碱。野生白毛茛的持续生存完全取决于人类的良知和责任——如果你认为

你需要白毛茛，请先尝试一下俄勒冈葡萄。您很可能会对结果感到满意。如果您仍然需要金毛草，请花额

外的钱购买来自经过认证的有机（栽培）来源的金毛草根或金毛草制剂。如果你使用野生的金印章，你就

会导致这种永远无法替代的伟大治疗宝藏的迅速消亡。

Availability: Herb retailers. Please buy goldenseal harvested from a cultivated source only.

供货情况：药草零售商。请仅购买从栽培来源收获的金印章。

Propagation and Harvest: If you have a piece of ground that can support goldenseal, grow some. The future

success of this plant may depend on people like you. The best place to plant goldenseal is in the shade of a dense,

hardwood canopy of a north-facing hillside. The plant requires deep compost-rich, well-drained soil with a pH level

between 5.5 and 6.5. With enough shade and the right soil amendments, goldenseal can be propagated in a garden as

well.

繁殖和收获：如果你有一块土地可以种植金印章，就种植一些。该工厂未来的成功可能取决于像您这样的

人。种植毛茛的最佳地点是朝北山坡上茂密的硬木树冠的阴凉处。该植物需要富含堆肥、排水良好的深层

土壤，pH 值在 5.5 至 6.5 之间。只要有足够的遮荫和适当的土壤改良，金印章也可以在花园中繁殖。

Goldenseal can be propagated from stratified seeds or from rhizomes spaced 4 inches apart in rows that are 12

inches apart. Planting should occur in fall. Goldenseal requires at least four to five years (preferably seven) to reach

maturity.

白毛茛可以用分层种子或用间隔 4 英寸、间隔 12 英寸的根茎繁殖。播种应在秋季进行。金毛草至少需要

四到五年（最好是七年）才能成熟。

=== PAGE 207 ===
Alternatives and Adjuncts: In many applications where an antimicrobial or anticatarrhal is indicated, any number

of plants that contain the yellow alkaloid berberine can be employed in place of goldenseal. Choices include Oregon

grape (Mahonia sp.), twinleaf (Jeffersonia diphylla), or yerba mansa (Anemiopsis californica ). Before any of these

herbs are employed, however, a fundamental question of holistic responsibility should be addressed in the minds of

all earth-conscious herb users: Does substituting a wildcrafted herb for an overharvested one benefit the future of

wild medicinal plants, or does it simply defer impact onto another species? The fact that Oregon grape is an

abundant wild substitute is beside the point. Humanity is efficient at disturbing or depleting virtually anything on

earth, and when we elect to abandon one natural resource for another in the absence of proactive holistic thinking,

we are only contributing to a continuum of human impact. With this in mind, we should elect to use wild substitutes

only when cultivated goldenseal is not available. Coptis sinensis, a species of goldthread that is widely cultivated in

China, may also serve as an excellent substitute for goldenseal. A small portion of goldthread or goldenseal added to

echinacea serves as a direct-intervention “double-punch” for infections of the mouth, urinary tract, and

gastrointestinal tract, while the echinacea does its job at boosting the immune system.

替代品和辅助剂：在许多需要抗菌或抗卡他药的应用中，可以使用任意数量的含有黄色生物碱小檗碱的植

物来代替白毛茛。选择包括俄勒冈葡萄 (Mahonia sp.)、双叶葡萄 (Jeffersonia diphylla) 或 yerba mansa

(Anemiopsis californica)。然而，在使用任何一种草药之前，所有具有地球意识的草药使用者都应该解决一

个整体责任的基本问题：用野生制作的草药代替过度采收的草药是否有利于野生药用植物的未来，或者是

否有利于野生药用植物的未来？只是推迟对另一个物种的影响？俄勒冈葡萄是一种丰富的野生替代品，这

一事实并不是重点。人类能够有效地扰乱或耗尽地球上的几乎任何东西，当我们在缺乏主动整体思维的情

况下选择放弃一种自然资源而转向另一种自然资源时，我们只会对人类产生连续的影响。考虑到这一点，

我们应该选择仅在无法获得栽培金印草时才使用野生替代品。黄连是一种在中国广泛种植的黄连植物，也

可以作为黄印章的绝佳替代品。在紫锥菊中添加一小部分黄连或金毛草，可作为针对口腔、泌尿道和胃肠

道感染的直接干预“双拳”，而紫锥菊则发挥增强免疫系统的作用。

Cautions and Comments: Some animal studies have shown that berberine calms the uterus, but other studies show

that it stimulates uterine contractions, so it is inadvisable to use goldenseal, Oregon grape, or other berberine-

containing plant medicines in pregnant animals. Goldenseal lowers blood sugar, so don’t use it in animals who are

hypoglycemic. Goldenseal also may alter the metabolism and may have the potential to cause hypertension. Long-

term internal use of goldenseal may overstimulate the liver and trigger excessive production of bile—a situation that

is likely to result in vomiting. Cats are especially prone to this side effect. In light of this, goldenseal should not be

used continuously, in excess of seven days, without a break. For proper dose and duration of therapy, and to

ascertain if internal use of goldenseal is indicated for your animal, consult a holistic veterinarian.

注意事项和评论：一些动物研究表明，小檗碱可以使子宫平静，但其他研究表明，它会刺激子宫收缩，因

此不建议在怀孕动物中使用白毛茛、俄勒冈葡萄或其他含小檗碱的植物药物。白毛茛会降低血糖，因此请

勿将其用于低血糖的动物。白毛茛还可能改变新陈代谢，并可能导致高血压。长期内服白毛茛可能会过度

刺激肝脏并引发胆汁分泌过多，这种情况可能会导致呕吐。猫特别容易出现这种副作用。鉴于此，白毛茛

连续使用不宜超过7天，不能间断。如需了解正确的剂量和治疗持续时间，并确定您的动物是否适合内服金

毛茛，请咨询整体兽医。

An unpleasant but not really threatening side effect may occur in cats that are fed goldenseal or any other plant

that contains berberine: excessive salivation. Since first writing this book we have heard from several cat owners

and veterinarians who report a “foaming at the mouth.” If this occurs, simply discontinue use—it simply means that

this may not be the best herbal choice for your particular kitty.

喂食金印草或任何其他含有小檗碱的植物的猫可能会出现令人不快但并不真正具有威胁性的副作用：流

涎过多。自从第一次写这本书以来，我们收到了几位猫主人和兽医的报告，他们报告说“口吐白沫”。如果

发生这种情况，只需停止使用 - 这仅仅意味着这可能不是适合您的特定小猫的最佳草药选择。

=== PAGE 208 ===
GOTU KOLA

积雪草

Centella asiatica

积雪草

Parsley Family

欧芹家族

Appearance: Gotu kola produces dark green, nearly circular, 1- to 3-inch leaves and purple flowers that are atypical

of the parsley family. The leaves have long petioles (stems) and leathery smooth surfaces that give the plant an

appearance similar to what lily pads would look like if they grew on land instead of in water.

外观：雷公根产生深绿色、近圆形、1 至 3 英寸的叶子和紫色的花朵，这是欧芹家族的非典型特征。叶子有

长叶柄（茎）和皮革般光滑的表面，使植物的外观类似于睡莲叶在陆地上而不是在水中生长的样子。

Centella asiatica

积雪草

Habitat and Range: Gotu kola is a native of India, south Asia, eastern Europe, and the Philippines. It inhabits

drainage ditches, streambeds, and moist waste areas, often in ground-covering abundance.

栖息地和分布范围：雷公根原产于印度、南亚、东欧和菲律宾。它栖息于排水沟、河床和潮湿的荒地，通

常地面覆盖丰富。

=== PAGE 209 ===
Cycle and Bloom Season: A perennial that blooms in summer

周期和开花季节：在夏季开花的多年生植物

Parts Used: Leaves

使用部件：叶子

Primary Medicinal Activities: Active against various skin problems (antidermatitic), peripheral vasodilator, helps

reduce arthritic inflammation, antioxidant, wound healing, diuretic

主要药用活性：有效对抗各种皮肤问题（抗皮炎）、外周血管扩张剂、帮助减少关节炎炎症、抗氧化剂、

伤口愈合、利尿

Strongest Affinities: Skin, nervous system, circulatory system

最强亲和力：皮肤、神经系统、循环系统

Preparation: Tea or tincture or any variety of topical preparation such as salves, lotions, and poultices

制剂：茶或酊剂或各种外用制剂，如药膏、洗剂和膏剂

Common Uses: Gotu kola is especially useful for burns, skin injuries, or dermatitis that involve vascular

insufficiency or accumulation of subcutaneous swelling. When taken internally it increases peripheral blood

circulation and serves as a mild diuretic, thus assisting with the body’s natural ability to cleanse and heal the

epidermis. When applied externally, it serves as an antioxidant and speeds the healing process by stimulating

regeneration of skin cells. It has also been shown to accelerate the production of healthy scar tissue after surgery. It

is known to promote hair and nail growth.

常见用途：积雪草对于治疗烧伤、皮肤损伤或涉及血管供血不足或皮下肿胀累积的皮炎特别有用。内服

时，它会增加末梢血液循环，并作为温和的利尿剂，从而有助于身体清洁和治愈表皮的自然能力。外用

时，它可以作为抗氧化剂，并通过刺激皮肤细胞的再生来加速愈合过程。它还被证明可以加速手术后健康

疤痕组织的产生。众所周知，它可以促进头发和指甲的生长。

Gotu kola is useful in treating leprosy (mycobacteriosis), an ulcerous bacterial infection of the skin that can occur

in dogs, cats, and other animals. In these cases, it is believed that a terpene compound called asiaticoside breaks

down the protective waxy coating of the disease-causing bacteria, leaving the invading microbes vulnerable to the

body’s immune system. Recent studies also suggest that the betulinic acid content of gotu kola is active against

melanoma, a life-threatening form of skin cancer.

积雪草可用于治疗麻风病（分枝杆菌病），这是一种可能发生在狗、猫和其他动物身上的皮肤溃疡性细

菌感染。在这些情况下，人们相信一种叫做积雪草苷的萜烯化合物会分解致病细菌的保护性蜡质涂层，使

入侵的微生物容易受到人体免疫系统的攻击。最近的研究还表明，雷公根中的桦木酸含量对黑色素瘤（一

种危及生命的皮肤癌）具有活性。

Gotu kola is said to improve mental clarity and to act as a mild sedative and nervine (moderates nerve

transmissions) in animals. In a study where rats were trained to do simple tasks, gotu kola was shown to improve

learning and memory. Researchers correlated this finding to a deceleration of neurotransmitter reproduction in the

brain—in other words, memory was retained because the process of neurotransmission remained less interrupted.

This makes gotu kola a potential candidate for treating senility in aging animals. Gotu kola may also be useful in the

treatment of epilepsy.

据说积雪草可以提高动物的思维清晰度，并起到温和的镇静剂和神经镇静剂（调节神经传递）的作用。

在一项训练老鼠完成简单任务的研究中，雷公根被证明可以改善学习和记忆。研究人员将这一发现与大脑

中神经递质复制的减慢联系起来——换句话说，记忆得以保留，因为神经传递过程的中断较少。这使得积

=== PAGE 210 ===
雪草成为治疗衰老动物衰老的潜在候选者。雷公根也可用于治疗癫痫。

For animals with arthritis, gotu kola improves circulation in the legs and helps to reduce inflammation. It has also

been shown to promote healing and reconstruction of connective tissue in the joints.

对于患有关节炎的动物，雷公根可改善腿部循环并有助于减少炎症。它还被证明可以促进关节结缔组织

的愈合和重建。

For external applications, gotu kola can be used as a skin rinse, poultice, or fomentation. Salves and oil infusions

work well too, especially when vitamin E oil is added. For internal uses in a dog or cat, a tea from the dried leaves (1

teaspoon of herb to 8 ounces of near-boiling water) can be fed directly or put in the animal’s food. Feed 1

tablespoon of the cooled tea per 30 pounds of the animal’s body weight, once daily. Alternatively, a tablespoon of

the fresh leaves can be finely chopped and added to each pound of an animal’s food (the young light-green leaves

are delicious in salads). Horses can be fed a handful of the leaves each day as a dietary adjunct. A low-alcohol

tincture is yet another option. For each 30 pounds of a dog’s body weight, add 0.5–1 milliliter of tincture to food

daily. Add 0.5 milliliters of tincture to your cat’s food daily.

对于外用，雷公根可用作皮肤冲洗剂、膏剂或热敷剂。药膏和油输液也很有效，尤其是添加维生素 E 油

时。对于狗或猫的内服，可以直接喂食干叶茶（1 茶匙药草加 8 盎司近沸水）或放入动物食物中。每 30 磅

动物体重喂 1 汤匙冷茶，每天一次。或者，可以将一汤匙新鲜叶子切碎并添加到每磅动物食物中（嫩浅绿

色的叶子在沙拉中非常美味）。每天可以给马喂一把叶子作为饮食辅助品。低酒精酊剂是另一种选择。每

狗体重 30 磅，每天在食物中添加 0.5-1 毫升酊剂。每天在猫的食物中添加 0.5 毫升酊剂。

Availability: Herb retailers and a few specialty seed and plant suppliers

可用性：药草零售商和一些专业种子和植物供应商

Propagation and Harvest: Although gotu kola is seldom grown in North America, its cultivation is certainly

possible. The plants must be kept warm—at tropical temperatures—throughout their lives, meaning that they will

need a greenhouse or a consistently warm, sunlit place indoors in order to flourish in most of North America. The

plants like nitrogen-rich soil, a mix of shade and sunlight, and room to spread.

繁殖和收获：虽然北美很少种植积雪草，但它的种植肯定是可能的。这些植物在整个生命周期中都必须保

持温暖（在热带温度下），这意味着它们需要温室或室内持续温暖、阳光充足的地方才能在北美大部分地

区蓬勃发展。这些植物喜欢富含氮的土壤、阴凉和阳光的混合以及蔓延的空间。

Alternatives and Adjuncts: For external treatment of skin problems, consider calendula, chaparral, aloe, comfrey,

and chamomile as alternatives or adjuncts. For internal treatment of skin problems or arthritis, gotu kola combines

with alternatives such as burdock, red clover, or yellow dock. Diuretic, nutritive, and cholagogue herbs such as

dandelion leaf and root, Oregon grape, cleavers, and nettle should be considered as well. Licorice, devil’s claw, or

yucca root serves as anti-inflammatory adjuncts. For vascular problems, gotu kola combines with ginger, cayenne,

peppermint, ginkgo, yarrow, or hawthorn. To improve mental clarity and circulation in the brain, add ginkgo to your

gotu kola.

替代品和辅助品：对于皮肤问题的外部治疗，可以考虑使用金盏花、灌木丛、芦荟、紫草和洋甘菊作为替

代品或辅助品。对于皮肤问题或关节炎的内部治疗，可将积雪草与牛蒡、红三叶草或黄坞等替代品结合使

用。还应考虑利尿、营养和利胆的草药，如蒲公英叶和根、俄勒冈葡萄、菜刀和荨麻。甘草、魔爪草或丝

兰根可作为抗炎辅助剂。对于血管问题，可将积雪草与生姜、辣椒、薄荷、银杏、西洋蓍草或山楂结合使

用。为了提高思维清晰度和大脑循环，可以在雷公根中添加银杏。

Cautions and Comments: Although never witnessed by the authors or anyone we consult with, there is some

scientific literature that presents the theory that excessive doses of gotu kola may have narcotic effects in animals,

may cause photosensitivity, and may interfere with hypoglycemic therapies. Large doses may also present

abortifacient activities and therefore should not be used in pregnant animals.

注意和评论：尽管作者或我们咨询的任何人从未亲眼目睹，但有一些科学文献提出了这样的理论：过量服

=== PAGE 211 ===
用雷公根可能对动物产生麻醉作用，可能导致光敏性，并可能干扰降血糖治疗。大剂量也可能具有堕胎活

性，因此不应用于怀孕动物。

=== PAGE 212 ===
GRAVELROOT

砾根

Eupatorium purpureum

紫茎泽兰

Sunflower Family

向日葵家族

Appearance: Gravelroot is a large perennial, sometimes reaching 12 feet tall. The lance-shaped leaves have short

petioles and grow directly off of the main stem in whorls of four or more. Leaves are distinctively textured and have

coarsely serrated edges. Stems are smooth, succulent, and covered with purple spots, especially at the leaf axils.

Flowers are small and pink, presented in showy slightly globe-shaped clusters at the top of the plant. Spotted

gravelroot (Eupatorium maculatum) shares the habitat of and looks similar to E. purpureum, except the mature

plants tend to be much smaller. Both are equally useful.

外观：Gravelroot 是一种大型多年生植物，有时可达到 12 英尺高。披针形的叶子有短叶柄，直接从主茎上

长出四个或更多的轮生。叶子纹理独特，边缘呈粗糙锯齿状。茎光滑、多汁，布满紫色斑点，尤其是叶腋

处。花朵很小，呈粉红色，在植物顶部呈华丽的略呈球形的簇状。斑点砾根（Eupatorium maculatum）与 E.

purpureum 有着相同的栖息地，并且看起来很相似，只是成熟的植物往往要小得多。两者同样有用。

Eupatorium purpureum

=== PAGE 213 ===
紫茎泽兰

Boneset (E. perfoliatum), a close relative of gravelroot, is a proportionately smaller plant that offers a different

range of therapeutic usefulness.

Boneset (E. perfoliatum) 是砾根的近亲，是一种相对较小的植物，提供不同范围的治疗用途。

Habitat and Range: Gravelroot is common at the edges of moist forest clearings, where it often forms dense

thickets. Its range includes most of the eastern United States from Minnesota and Nebraska eastward to the Atlantic

Ocean and south to Florida. In the West, E. maculatum is sporadically distributed from South British Columbia to

New Mexico.

栖息地和范围：砾根常见于潮湿的森林空地边缘，通常形成茂密的灌木丛。其范围包括美国东部大部分地

区，从明尼苏达州和内布拉斯加州向东到大西洋，向南到佛罗里达州。在西部，E. maculatum 零星分布于

从不列颠哥伦比亚省南部到新墨西哥州。

Cycle and Bloom Season: A perennial that blooms in midsummer

周期和开花季节：在仲夏开花的多年生植物

Parts Used: Roots

使用部位：根部

Primary Medicinal Activities: Diuretic, anti-inflammatory, tonic, helps reduce arthritic inflammation, helps

prevent or eliminate urinary stress

主要药用活性： 利尿、抗炎、滋补，有助于减少关节炎炎症，有助于预防或消除尿压力

Strongest Affinities: Urinary tract

最强的亲和力：泌尿道

Preparation: Decoction or tincture of the root

制剂：根的汤剂或酊剂

Common Uses: Gravelroot is traditionally used for expelling small kidney and bladder stones (gravel) from the

urinary tract. It is effective for reducing the pain and inflammation of cystitis, and is sometimes used to treat swollen

prostates. The diuretic activities of gravelroot may help in the elimination of excess uric acid from the body, making

it potentially useful in the treatment of gout and other forms of rheumatism. Although little scientific validation

exists for the medicinal uses of this plant, its abundance and long-standing reputation among herbalists as a safe and

effective urinary tract remedy warrants attention. While this herb has been safely used in dogs and cats, we cannot

recommend gravelroot as a first-choice herb simply because we don’t know it as well as its alternatives. However,

gravelroot is a profusely abundant plant in many areas of North America, and it is a valuable resource when other

urinary tract herbs may not be available. It is also a plant that is likely to gain market popularity in coming years,

and chances are it will someday enter the market in some kind of pet formula. In any case, gravelroot is a good herb

to remember as an emergency standby resource.

常见用途：石砾根传统上用于排出尿道中的小肾结石和膀胱结石（砾石）。它可以有效减轻膀胱炎的疼痛

和炎症，有时用于治疗前列腺肿胀。砾根的利尿活性可能有助于消除体内多余的尿酸，使其可能用于治疗

痛风和其他形式的风湿病。尽管这种植物的药用用途几乎没有科学验证，但它的丰富性和在草药学家中作

为安全有效的泌尿道治疗药物的长期声誉值得关注。虽然这种草药已被安全地用于狗和猫，但我们不能仅

仅因为我们不了解它及其替代品而推荐砾根作为首选草药。然而，砾根在北美许多地区是一种丰富的植

物，当其他泌尿道草药可能无法获得时，它是一种宝贵的资源。它也是一种在未来几年可能会受到市场欢

=== PAGE 214 ===
迎的植物，并且很可能有一天它会以某种宠物配方奶粉的形式进入市场。无论如何，砾根是一种值得记住

的好药草，可以作为紧急备用资源。

Availability: Despite its long history as an herbal medicine, commercial sources of gravelroot are difficult to find in

many parts of North America, especially in the West. The solution to this problem is simple—grow your own! Seeds

are available through specialty catalogs.

可用性：尽管其作为草药的历史悠久，但在北美许多地区，尤其是西方，很难找到石根的商业来源。解决

这个问题的方法很简单——自己种植！种子可通过专业目录获得。

Propagation and Harvest: This perennial is easy to grow. It sends up shoots from its rhizomes shortly after it is

planted and forms a self-sufficient thicket. All it really needs is plenty of sun, rich soil, and frequent watering. Plants

do best if sheltered from wind because the stems tend to break easily.

繁殖和收获：这种多年生植物很容易生长。它在种植后不久就会从根茎中发出芽，形成一个自给自足的灌

木丛。它真正需要的只是充足的阳光、肥沃的土壤和经常浇水。植物在避风的情况下生长得最好，因为茎

很容易折断。

Alternatives and Adjuncts: For removal of gravel from the urinary tract, gravelroot is often combined with

demulcent herbs such as marshmallow root, plantain, and corn silk. In urinary disorders that also involve

inflammation or bleeding, gravelroot can be combined with stronger astringents or other anti-inflammatory herbs

such as uva ursi, cleavers, and corn silk. As an alternative, consider couch grass.

替代品和辅助剂：为了清除尿道中的砾石，砾根通常与药蜀葵根、车前草和玉米须等缓和药草结合使用。

对于还涉及炎症或出血的泌尿系统疾病，石砾根可以与更强的收敛剂或其他抗炎草药（如熊果、菜刀和玉

米须）结合使用。作为替代方案，请考虑沙发草。

=== PAGE 215 ===
Cautions and Comments: Only the root of this plant should be used because the leaves, stems, and flowers contain

echinatine, a pyrrolizidine alkaloid that may be harmful to the liver if consumed in large enough quantities.

Although direct side effects appear to be rare in animals who eat this plant, raw milk taken from animals who have

grazed on gravelroot and then fed to humans and other animals may have toxic effects. The symptoms of overdose

may include weakness, nausea, vomiting, liver damage, tremors, collapse, difficult breathing, convulsions, coma, or

death. It is highly advisable to contact a veterinarian familiar with gravelroot before administering it to your dog or

cat.

注意事项和评论：只能使用这种植物的根，因为叶子、茎和花含有松果碱，这是一种吡咯里西啶生物碱，

如果大量食用，可能对肝脏有害。虽然食用这种植物的动物似乎很少出现直接副作用，但从吃砾根草的动

物身上提取的生奶然后喂给人类和其他动物可能会产生毒性作用。服用过量的症状可能包括虚弱、恶心、

呕吐、肝损伤、震颤、虚脱、呼吸困难、抽搐、昏迷或死亡。强烈建议在给您的狗或猫服用砾根之前先联

系熟悉砾根的兽医。

=== PAGE 216 ===
GRINDELIA

格林迪莉亚

Grindelia squarrosa

粗果银花

Sunflower Family

向日葵家族

Appearance: When grindelia is first encountered in the field, two thoughts often come to mind: This is a weed, and

this is obviously a member of the sunflower family. Grindelia has strong but flexible 1- to 3-foot-tall stems,

sawtoothed leaves, and bright yellow flowers that grow one per stem. Beneath the yellow rays, the flowers have

distinctive curved bracts. The flower heads have a sticky gumlike substance that has earned the plant the common

name of “gumweed.”

外观：当第一次在田野中遇到绿豆草时，脑海中经常会浮现出两个想法：这是一种杂草，而且这显然是向

日葵家族的一员。 Grindelia 拥有坚固而灵活的 1 至 3 英尺高的茎、锯齿状的叶子和每茎长一朵的亮黄色花

朵。在黄色光线下，花朵有独特的弯曲苞片。花头有一种粘稠的树胶状物质，这种物质为这种植物赢得

了“牙龈草”的俗名。

Habitat and Range: Several species of Grindelia range throughout the western two-thirds of North America. All

share similar appearances and most are inhabitants of wide-open plains or dry, sunny forest clearings.

栖息地和分布范围： 几种格林黛利亚分布在北美西部三分之二的地区。它们都有相似的外貌，大多数都是

广阔的平原或干燥、阳光明媚的森林空地的居民。

Cycle and Bloom Season: A biennial or short-lived perennial that reproduces by seed

周期和开花季节：通过种子繁殖的两年生或短命多年生植物

Parts Used: Flowers and leaves

使用部分：花和叶

Primary Medicinal Activities: Expectorant, sedative, cough suppressant, anti-inflammatory, lowers blood pressure,

relieves poison ivy–induced contact dermatitis

主要药用活性：祛痰、镇静、止咳、抗炎、降低血压、缓解毒藤引起的接触性皮炎

Strongest Affinities: Respiratory tract and skin

最强的亲和力：呼吸道和皮肤

Preparation: For internal uses: tincture or tea. For contact dermatitis: tea (skin rinse), salve, lotion, ointment, or

liniment (an externally applied tincture).

制剂：内服：酊剂或茶。对于接触性皮炎：茶（皮肤冲洗剂）、药膏、乳液、软膏或搽剂（外用酊剂）。

=== PAGE 217 ===
Common Uses: Very little scientific attention has been directed toward grindelia, but its effectiveness and

usefulness as a respiratory herb is well known among Western herbalists. Native Americans, who passed their herbal

wisdom to us, used grindelia to treat everything from tuberculosis and pneumonia to gonorrhea and postpartum pain.

From a scientific perspective, we know that the gummy substance secreted from the flower heads contains at least

20 percent resins, which are composed of substances that stimulate mucus secretion and reduce inflammation in the

upper respiratory tract, making a dry, hacking cough more productive. Adding to grindelia’s expectorant qualities

are sedative and antispasmodic activities that calm a spastic cough by relaxing the smooth muscles of the upper

respiratory tract while dilating the bronchioles. This makes grindelia useful for relieving the symptoms of asthma in

dogs and cats, especially when it is administered at the early onset of an attack. We also find it useful for easing the

symptoms of bordetella (kennel cough). To evaluate whether grindelia is appropriate for your pet and to determine a

proper dosage, talk to a holistic practitioner.

常见用途：很少有科学界对研磨草的关注，但其作为呼吸草药的有效性和实用性在西方草药学家中是众所

周知的。美洲原住民将他们的草药智慧传授给了我们，他们用苦参来治疗从肺结核、肺炎到淋病和产后疼

痛等各种疾病。从科学角度来看，我们知道花头分泌的胶质物质至少含有20%的树脂，这些物质由刺激粘

液分泌、减少上呼吸道炎症的物质组成，使干咳更有效。银杏的祛痰功效还具有镇静和解痉作用，可通过

放松上呼吸道平滑肌同时扩张细支气管来缓解痉挛性咳嗽。这使得金黛草可有效缓解狗和猫的哮喘症状，

尤其是在哮喘发作早期服用时。我们还发现它对于缓解博德特氏菌（犬窝咳）的症状很有用。要评估苦丁

草是否适合您的宠物并确定适当的剂量，请咨询整体医生。

Grindelia squarrosa

粗果银花

Many North American Indian tribes used decoctions or simple teas of grindelia leaves and flowers as a soothing

skin rinse for poison ivy–induced dermatitis, and in recent years, grindelia lotions have started to appear in European

markets for the same purpose. A simple homemade decoction or tincture serves this purpose—apply as needed to

the affected areas once or twice daily.

许多北美印第安部落使用金黛草叶和花的汤剂或简单的茶作为舒缓皮肤冲洗剂，治疗毒藤引起的皮炎，

=== PAGE 218 ===
近年来，出于同样目的，金黛草乳液开始出现在欧洲市场。一种简单的自制汤剂或酊剂即可达到此目的 -

根据需要每天一次或两次涂抹在受影响的区域。

Availability: Grindelia herb or herbal preparations are available through herb retailers. The seed is available through

specialty seed catalogs.

可用性：Grindelia 草药或草药制剂可通过草药零售商购买。该种子可通过专业种子目录获得。

Propagation and Harvest: Grindelia tolerates poor soil and can be propagated easily from seed. Harvest the

flowers and leaves when the plants are in full bloom.

繁殖和收获：Grindelia能耐受贫瘠的土壤，并且可以很容易地用种子繁殖。当植物盛开时收获花朵和叶子。

Alternatives and Adjuncts: For asthma, a small amount of grindelia can be combined with nettle. Look at lobelia

as a possible adjunct or alternative. For kennel cough and other respiratory infections and irritations, check out

horehound, coltsfoot, comfrey, mullein, and wild cherry as possible alternatives or adjuncts.

替代品和辅助剂：对于哮喘，可以将少量的苦参与荨麻混合使用。将半边莲视为一种可能的辅助品或替代

品。对于犬舍咳嗽和其他呼吸道感染和刺激，可以考虑使用苦海草、款冬、紫草、毛蕊花和野樱桃作为可

能的替代品或辅助品。

Cautions and Comments: Internal use of grindelia may have a relaxing effect on the heart muscle and may cause a

decrease in blood pressure. As a result, grindelia may be contraindicated in animals with heart or other circulatory

problems. Excessive doses of grindelia are believed to cause renal irritation; therefore grindelia may be

contraindicated in animals with renal failure or other forms of kidney disease. Although it is generally regarded as

nontoxic but unpalatable to livestock and other animals, little research has been done on the effects of grindelia. Its

use should be limited to what the holistic pet care community has learned through clinical experience. See your

holistic veterinarian before administering this herb internally. Barring allergic sensitivity, external applications are

generally safe for home treatment of poison ivy dermatitis on most animals.

注意事项和评论： 内用苦参可能对心肌有放松作用，并可能导致血压下降。因此，患有心脏或其他循环系

统问题的动物可能禁用磨豆。过量服用银杏被认为会引起肾脏刺激；因此，患有肾功能衰竭或其他形式肾

脏疾病的动物可能禁用grindelia。尽管人们普遍认为它无毒，但对家畜和其他动物来说却难以食用，但对苦

参的影响却很少有研究。其使用应仅限于整体宠物护理界通过临床经验学到的知识。在内服这种草药之

前，请先咨询您的整体兽医。除非过敏，外用药物对于大多数动物的毒藤皮炎家庭治疗通常是安全的。

=== PAGE 219 ===
HAWTHORN

山楂

Crataegus sp.

山楂属

Rose Family

玫瑰家族

Appearance: Hawthorn is a small deciduous tree or large shrub (up to 16 feet tall) that is easily recognized and

quickly remembered by its nasty 1- to 3-inch curved thorns that are strategically spaced along the branches, often at

eye level. The leaves of most species are narrowly fan-shaped or oval. The margins of the 1- to 2-inch-long leaves

are toothed with all leaf tips pointing distinctly forward. The white 1/4-inch flowers are presented in flat clusters,

each blossom having five petals and numerous stamens (the pollen-bearing structures). When in full bloom, the

blossoms often have an unpleasant “dead” odor. In late summer, the flowers are replaced with clusters of red to

black berries that contain two to five seeds each.

外观：山楂是一种落叶小乔木或大型灌木（高达 16 英尺），因其 1 至 3 英寸的弯曲刺而易于识别并很快被

记住，这些刺沿着树枝巧妙地间隔开，通常与眼睛齐平。大多数物种的叶子是窄扇形或椭圆形的。 1 至 2

英寸长的叶子边缘有齿，所有叶尖明显向前。白色 1/4 英寸的花朵呈扁平簇状，每朵花有五个花瓣和许多雄

蕊（承载花粉的结构）。盛开时，花朵通常会散发出令人不快的“死”气味。夏末，花朵被一簇簇红色到黑

色的浆果取代，每个浆果含有两到五颗种子。

Habitat and Range: The Crataegus genus is large and varied with hundreds of species (all of which readily

hybridize) in North America. Most species are found in riparian thickets or moist meadows, where they serve as

important forage and nesting habitats for birds and other wildlife. They are found in Alaska and British Columbia

southward into California and are widely distributed eastward throughout the western interior states at valley and

foothill elevations. C. douglasii (black hawthorn, see photo) is one of the most common and widespread species.

栖息地和分布范围：北美的山楂属面积庞大，种类繁多，有数百个物种（所有这些物种都很容易杂交）。

大多数物种发现于河岸灌木丛或潮湿的草地中，它们是鸟类和其他野生动物的重要饲料和筑巢栖息地。它

们分布在阿拉斯加和不列颠哥伦比亚省向南进入加利福尼亚州，并向东广泛分布在整个西部内陆各州的山

谷和山麓海拔处。 C. douglasii（黑山楂，见照片）是最常见和分布最广的物种之一。

Cycle and Bloom Season: Deciduous perennial; blooms sometime between April and June

周期和开花季节：落叶多年生植物；四月至六月之间的某个时间开花

Parts Used: Fruits (berries) or flowers and leaf buds

使用部位：水果（浆果）或花和叶芽

Primary Medicinal Activities: Tonic (strengthens cardiovascular structures and functions), lowers blood pressure,

dilates blood vessels, nutritive, antioxidant

主要药用活性：滋补（增强心血管结构和功能）、降低血压、扩张血管、营养、抗氧化

Strongest Affinities: Cardiovascular system

=== PAGE 220 ===
最强的亲和力：心血管系统

Preparation: Fresh or dried berries, tincture, tea, and decoction

制剂：新鲜或干浆果、酊剂、茶和汤剂

Common Uses: Hawthorn berries have been considered one of nature’s best and safest heart and vascular tonics for

millennia. A great deal of scientific study has validated hawthorn’s usefulness in this capacity, and herbalists and

researchers agree that hawthorn benefits the heart and arteries in at least three ways:

常见用途：几千年来，山楂浆果一直被认为是自然界最好、最安全的心脏和血管滋补品之一。大量科学研

究已经验证了山楂在这方面的用途，草药学家和研究人员一致认为山楂至少在三个方面有益于心脏和动

脉：

• Hawthorn dilates both coronary vessels and vessels of the brain, helping to increase circulation and the

transport of nutrients and oxygen throughout the body. It accomplishes this in an effective and unique

fashion: while it dilates major vessels, it also increases blood flow from the heart to compensate for any

reduction of arterial blood volume. In other words, it helps the body push more blood around by increasing

cardiac output and decreasing blood flow resistance in the arteries so there is more blood flow at lower

pressure. This effect has been shown in studies performed with dogs, especially when used in small doses

over an extended period.

• 山楂可以扩张冠状血管和大脑血管，有助于增加血液循环以及营养物质和氧气在全身的运输。它以一

种有效且独特的方式实现这一目标：在扩张主要血管的同时，它还增加心脏的血流量，以补偿动脉

血量的减少。换句话说，它通过增加心输出量和降低动脉血流阻力来帮助身体推动更多的血液，从

而在较低的压力下有更多的血流。这种效果已在对狗进行的研究中得到证实，特别是在长时间小剂

量使用时。

• Hawthorn possesses antioxidant properties. It scavenges free-radical molecules that are known to rob the

blood of oxygen and may lead to various forms of vascular disease.

• 山楂具有抗氧化特性。它清除自由基分子，这些自由基分子会夺走血液中的氧气，并可能导致各种形

式的血管疾病。

• Hawthorn acts to steady and strengthen a weak or erratic heartbeat. In fact, it has been shown to be a possible

alternative to the drug digitalis and may actually serve as a potentiating adjunct to this cardiac drug.

• 山楂可以稳定和加强微弱或不稳定的心跳。事实上，它已被证明是洋地黄药物的可能替代品，并且实

际上可以作为这种心脏药物的增强辅助剂。

=== PAGE 221 ===
Crataegus douglassi

山楂

All of these activities are largely attributable to the vast array of flavonoid constituents held in hawthorn. Flavonoids

are typified as red pigments found in many kinds of fruits and vegetables, and hundreds of studies have indicated

that these compounds are essential in maintaining disease resistance and the integrity of smooth-muscle tissues

throughout the body. It so happens that hawthorn may be the richest natural source of these vital nutrients. In a

recent study using unfortunate rats, the flavonoid constituents held in hawthorn were shown to help prevent

myocardial damage in situations where the heart muscle was subjected to physiological stress. This means that

animals such as racehorses and working dogs, who are constantly under cardiovascular stress, are likely to find

preventative benefits from daily supplements of hawthorn berries in their diets. It stands to reason that this

cardiovascular tonic is useful in the daily care of older animals, especially those who suffer from chronic heart

problems such as congestive heart failure, postsurgical dysfunction, or cardiac anomalies that have resulted from

heartworm, bacterial or viral infections, or protracted chemotherapy. When combined with herbs that strengthen

kidney function, hawthorn may also serve as a good adjunct therapy in the early treatment of kidney failure.

Hawthorn’s vasodilator and hypotensive actions may help to improve blood circulation through the renal arteries

and smaller vessels of the kidneys without the added stress of increased blood pressure.

所有这些活性很大程度上归功于山楂中含有的大量黄酮类成分。黄酮类化合物是在多种水果和蔬菜中发现

的典型红色素，数百项研究表明这些化合物对于维持全身平滑肌组织的抗病性和完整性至关重要。碰巧山

楂可能是这些重要营养素最丰富的天然来源。最近一项针对不幸老鼠的研究表明，山楂中的类黄酮成分有

助于防止心肌受到生理应激时的心肌损伤。这意味着赛马和工作犬等经常承受心血管压力的动物可能会从

日常饮食中补充山楂浆果中获得预防益处。按理说，这种心血管补品对于老年动物的日常护理很有用，特

别是那些患有慢性心脏问题的动物，例如充血性心力衰竭、术后功能障碍或由心丝虫、细菌或病毒感染引

起的心脏异常，或长期化疗。当与增强肾功能的草药结合使用时，山楂还可以作为肾衰竭早期治疗的良好

辅助疗法。山楂的血管扩张和降血压作用可能有助于改善肾动脉和肾脏小血管的血液循环，而不会增加血

压升高的压力。

One of the nicest things about using hawthorn in treating animals is the fact that it tastes pretty good and is one of

the easiest herbs to feed to your pet. If you are lucky enough to have a hawthorn tree near your home and an animal

=== PAGE 222 ===
who likes red fruit, you can pick the ripe berries and feed them as tonic treats. As an alternative, the fully ripe berries

can be picked, dried on a clean sheet of paper, and ground by hand with a mortar and pestle (be forewarned: the

dried berries burn out small coffee grinders) into a coarse powder. The powder can then be added to your pet’s diet

—1 teaspoon per pound of food fed each day. If your animal won’t eat the berries either way, try making a tea and

pouring it over the food. If that doesn’t work, you can use hawthorn gel capsules wrapped with a little cheese, or,

better yet, you can use a low-alcohol hawthorn extract.

使用山楂治疗动物的最好的事情之一是它的味道非常好，并且是最容易喂养宠物的草药之一。如果您足

够幸运，家附近有一棵山楂树，并且有一只喜欢红色水果的动物，您可以采摘成熟的浆果并将其作为补品

喂养。作为替代方案，可以采摘完全成熟的浆果，在干净的纸上干燥，然后用研钵和研杵手动研磨（预先

警告：干浆果会烧坏小型咖啡研磨机）成粗粉。然后可以将粉末添加到宠物的饮食中——每天每磅食物添

加 1 茶匙。如果您的动物无论如何都不吃浆果，请尝试泡茶并将其倒在食物上。如果这不起作用，您可以

使用山楂凝胶胶囊，包裹上一点奶酪，或者更好的是，您可以使用低酒精山楂提取物。

The berries are the commonly used and marketed part of the hawthorn plant, probably because they make such a

pretty and palatable medicine. But in early spring, before the berries are available, the flowering branch ends

(leaves, flower buds, twigs, and thorns) can be clipped into small pieces and made into a decoction. Good luck

getting it into your animal though—unlike the berries, the “twig tea” tastes awful!

浆果是山楂植物中常用和销售的部分，可能是因为它们是一种美丽可口的药物。但在早春，在浆果成熟

之前，可以将开花的枝端（叶、花蕾、嫩枝和刺）剪成小块，制成汤剂。不过，祝你好运，让你的动物吃

到它——与浆果不同，“树枝茶”味道很糟糕！

Availability: Hawthorn berries and the dried leaves and flowers are available through herb retailers. Various

hawthorn preparations are available at health food stores.

可用性：山楂浆果以及干叶和花可通过药草零售商购买。保健食品商店出售各种山楂制剂。

Propagation and Harvest: A few species of hawthorn are available through nurseries, particularly those

specializing in native plants. Hawthorn is not difficult to grow—all it really requires is plenty of water. But it tends

to be a slow grower. Gather the berries when they are completely ripe, usually in midsummer. Depending on the

species, the berries are red or blue-red (almost black in the case of C. douglasii). The berries can then be used fresh,

or they can be dried for future use. When properly stored, they should keep for at least a year. The flowering end-

twigs should be harvested and used as soon as the blossoms open in early spring.

繁殖和收获：一些山楂品种可以通过苗圃获得，特别是那些专门种植本土植物的苗圃。山楂的种植并不困

难，它真正需要的只是充足的水。但它的生长速度往往很慢。当浆果完全成熟时（通常在仲夏）收集它

们。根据品种的不同，浆果呈红色或蓝红色（道格拉斯 C. douglasii 的浆果几乎是黑色）。浆果可以新鲜使

用，也可以晒干以备将来使用。如果储存得当，它们应该保存至少一年。早春花开后应立即采收花尾枝并

使用。

Alternatives and Adjuncts: When combined with a good natural diet and other tonic herbs, hawthorn acts exactly

as an herbal heart tonic should, filling the special cardiac needs in the golden years of an animal’s life. Other tonic

herbs can be used in combination with hawthorn to round out the supplemental needs of older animals. These might

include ginkgo or yarrow (for strengthening capillary walls), garlic (for added antioxidant and immune system

support), alfalfa and red clover (to nourish the blood, increase appetite, and raise energy levels), dandelion leaf (to

assist in the removal of excess water and lend tonic support to the kidneys), and oatstraw (as a nervous system

tonic).

替代品和辅助品：当与良好的天然饮食和其他滋补草药相结合时，山楂的作用完全相当于草药心脏补品，

可以满足动物生命黄金岁月的特殊心脏需求。其他滋补草药可以与山楂结合使用，以满足老年动物的补充

需求。这些可能包括银杏或西洋蓍草（用于增强毛细血管壁）、大蒜（用于增加抗氧化剂和免疫系统支

持）、苜蓿和红三叶草（用于滋养血液、增加食欲和提高能量水平）、蒲公英叶（用于帮助去除多余的水

分并为肾脏提供补品支持）和燕麦草（作为神经系统补品）。

=== PAGE 223 ===
Cautions and Comments: Hawthorn is safe. In fact, in the hundreds of animal studies that have been conducted

with this herb since 1900, hawthorn has shown extremely low toxicity in every animal tested. We place the toxicity

potential of hawthorn berries on the same level as that of rose hips, raspberries, or blueberries—in other words,

hawthorn is a medicinal food.

注意事项和评论：山楂是安全的。事实上，自 1900 年以来，在用这种草药进行的数百项动物研究中，山楂

对每只测试动物都显示出极低的毒性。我们将山楂浆果的潜在毒性与玫瑰果、覆盆子或蓝莓置于同一水

平，换句话说，山楂是一种药用食品。

=== PAGE 224 ===
HOP

Humulus lupulus

啤酒花

Mulberry Family

桑葚家族

Appearance: Hop is a beautiful trailing vine with deeply lobed leaves reminiscent of those of grapevines.

外观：啤酒花是一种美丽的蔓生藤本植物，叶子深裂，让人想起葡萄藤。

Habitat and Range: Originally a Eurasian plant, several varieties of hop are grown throughout the world. Many

have escaped cultivation and now adorn waste areas, railway easements, and ravines throughout North America.

栖息地和分布范围：啤酒花最初是一种欧亚植物，现在世界各地都有多种啤酒花种植。许多植物已经不再

种植，现在装饰着北美各地的荒地、铁路地役权和峡谷。

Cycle and Bloom Season: A perennial that blooms in mid–to late summer.

周期和开花季节：多年生植物，在夏中至夏末开花。

Parts Used: Strobiles (strobili), commonly known as hops

使用部分：Strobiles（strobili），俗称啤酒花

=== PAGE 225 ===
Humulus lupulus

啤酒花

Primary Medicinal Activities: Sedative, diuretic, stimulates digestion

主要药用活性：镇静、利尿、促进消化

Strongest Affinities: Nervous system, urinary tract, digestive tract

最强亲和力：神经系统、泌尿道、消化道

Preparation: Tea, tincture, fresh strobiles

准备：茶、酊剂、新鲜球果

Common Uses: Unlike many of the calming herbs we refer to as herbal sedatives, hop is truly sedative in nature. It

works as a mild but reliable nervous system depressant and hypnotic, whereas most other calming herbs work more

as muscle relaxants. Provided it is used with prudence and respect, hop serves as an excellent general-purpose

calming agent in cases of acute anxiety such as the dreaded trip to the groomer or a long horse-trailer ride on the

interstate. Provided the animals accept the bitter flavor, a handful or two of the fresh or dried strobiles can be fed to

horses, llamas, mules, or other herbivores just before or during an emotional crisis. A few drops of the tea or tincture

can be fed to dogs and cats.

常见用途：与许多我们称为草药镇静剂的镇静草药不同，啤酒花本质上具有真正的镇静作用。它作为一种

温和但可靠的神经系统抑制剂和催眠药，而大多数其他镇静草药更多地作为肌肉松弛剂。如果谨慎和尊重

地使用它，啤酒花可以作为一种极好的通用镇静剂，用于缓解急性焦虑的情况，例如可怕的美容之旅或在

州际公路上乘坐长途拖车。如果动物接受苦味，可以在情绪危机之前或期间将一把或两把新鲜或干燥的球

果喂给马、美洲驼、骡子或其他食草动物。可以将几滴茶或酊剂喂给狗和猫。

Hop is also good for separation anxiety and for episodes of hyperexcitability that occur subsequent to traumatic

=== PAGE 226 ===
events such as intermittent episodes of insomnia, whining, and restlessness that haunt an adopted pet who is

recovering from physical or emotional abuse. Giving 10–20 drops added to each quart of the animal’s drinking

water usually serves this purpose well. Hop is also good for helping an animal to relax in the presence of physical

pain, especially when hop is combined with valerian. While hop does not lend appreciable painkilling activities, it

does assist the animal in dealing with pain naturally. (Animals are much better at this than we are.) Giving ⅛

teaspoon for each 20 pounds of the animal’s weight, no more than three times daily, usually suffices for pain or

acute anxiety problems.

啤酒花还有助于治疗分离焦虑和创伤性事件后发生的过度兴奋，例如间歇性失眠、抱怨和不安，这些困

扰着正在从身体或情感虐待中恢复的领养宠物。在每夸脱动物的饮用水中添加 10-20 滴通常可以很好地达

到此目的。啤酒花还有助于帮助动物在身体疼痛时放松，特别是当啤酒花与缬草混合时。虽然啤酒花并没

有明显的止痛作用，但它确实可以帮助动物自然地应对疼痛。 （动物在这方面比我们好得多。）每 20 磅体

重的动物服用 ⅛ 茶匙，每天不超过 3 次，通常足以缓解疼痛或急性焦虑问题。

While hop may help to relieve the severity of pain or an emotional crisis, it is important to remember that it

cannot treat the underlying causes of behavioral disorders. Hyperactivity and excitability may be symptoms of a

nutritional deficiency, a metabolic imbalance, an infection, or hyperthyroidism. Look deep into your animal’s crisis

from as many perspectives as you can. Even if hop seems to be solving the problem, it may be only masking the

symptoms of a serious disease.

虽然啤酒花可能有助于缓解疼痛或情绪危机的严重程度，但重要的是要记住，它不能治疗行为障碍的根

本原因。多动和兴奋可能是营养缺乏、代谢失衡、感染或甲状腺功能亢进的症状。尽可能从多个角度深入

了解动物的危机。即使啤酒花似乎解决了问题，它也可能只是掩盖了严重疾病的症状。

Animal studies have confirmed that the humulone and lupulone constituents in hop are active against many forms

of gram-positive bacteria as well as some of the troublesome fungi, including Candida spp. Human studies have also

shown promising results from the use of hop in treating gallbladder inflammation and urinary incontinence. In the

incontinence study, 772 of 915 human patients who received a formula containing hop, uva ursi, and vitamin E

experienced excellent results.

动物研究已证实，啤酒花中的葎草酮和蛇麻酮成分对多种形式的革兰氏阳性细菌以及一些麻烦的真菌

（包括念珠菌属）具有活性。人体研究也显示出使用啤酒花治疗胆囊炎症和尿失禁的良好效果。在失禁研

究中，915 名人类患者中有 772 名接受了含有啤酒花、熊果和维生素 E 的配方奶粉，获得了优异的效果。

Availability: Dried hop is available through herb retailers or wherever beer-making supplies are sold. Avoid the

compressed pellets or strobiles and the concentrated hop syrups used for brewing. What you want is the whole dried

strobiles. The compressed pellets and syrups are concentrated and may cause a serious toxic reaction in your animal.

Ideally, of course, you should grow your own hop.

可获得性：干啤酒花可通过药草零售商或销售啤酒生产用品的任何地方购买。避免使用压缩颗粒或球菌以

及用于酿造的浓缩啤酒花糖浆。你想要的是整个干的球果。压缩颗粒和糖浆经过浓缩，可能会对您的动物

造成严重的毒性反应。当然，理想情况下，您应该自己种植啤酒花。

Propagation and Harvest: Hop vines are easy to grow, cold hardy, and attractive when trained to climb a trellis or

garden archway. The plants need moist, rich soil and full sun in order to thrive and bloom. Plants and root cuttings

are available through nurseries.

繁殖和收获：啤酒花藤很容易生长，耐寒，经过训练可以攀爬格子或花园拱门，并且具有吸引力。植物需

要潮湿、肥沃的土壤和充足的阳光才能茁壮成长和开花。植物和根插条可通过苗圃获得。

Alternatives and Adjuncts: For pain and posttraumatic irritability, hop combines especially well with valerian. If

the pain is attributable to nerve trauma or dysfunction, consider skullcap, oatstraw, or Saint-John’s-wort as possible

adjuncts or alternatives. For anxiety and restlessness characterized by trembling or hyperexcitability to touch or a

sudden sound (the animal jumps when surprised), hop can be combined with skullcap or passionflower.

替代品和辅助剂：对于疼痛和创伤后烦躁，啤酒花与缬草的结合效果特别好。如果疼痛是由神经损伤或功

能障碍引起的，请考虑使用黄芩、燕麦草或圣约翰草作为可能的辅助剂或替代品。对于以颤抖或对触摸或

=== PAGE 227 ===
突然的声音（动物惊讶时跳起来）过度兴奋为特征的焦虑和不安，啤酒花可以与黄芩或西番莲结合使用。

Cautions and Comments: In 1998, the National Animal Poison Control Center had recorded eight instances of

dogs dying after eating hops that had been used and discarded during the process of brewing beer. All of these dogs

succumbed to malignant hyperthermia—an acute, uncontrollable fever the first symptom of which is heavy panting,

followed by rapid heartbeat and a rapid and continued rise in body temperature. Seven of the dogs were greyhounds,

and it appears that this breed is especially susceptible to hyperthermia from eating discarded hops. It also should be

noted that the deaths of these dogs were from the ingestion of the spent (postbrewing) hops used in making beer, not

from the medicinal-quality hops used in making tinctures. The problem appears to stem from three common

denominators:

注意事项：1998年，国家动物毒物防治中心记录了8起狗因食用啤酒酿造过程中使用和丢弃的啤酒花而死亡

的事件。所有这些狗都死于恶性高热——一种无法控制的急性发烧，其首发症状是严重气喘吁吁，随后是

心跳加速和体温快速持续升高。其中七只狗是灵缇犬，该品种似乎特别容易因食用废弃的啤酒花而出现体

温过高的情况。还应该指出的是，这些狗的死亡是由于摄入了用于制造啤酒的废（酿造后）啤酒花，而不

是来自用于制造酊剂的药用啤酒花。这个问题似乎源于三个共同点：

• The chemistry of spent hops or the manner by which they are metabolized by greyhounds may be quite

different from the manner in which fresh or dried strobiles are processed by the same animals. It is evident

that the chemical and biochemical relationships among hops, malt syrup, various sugars, and other elements

of beer-making may be responsible for the ultimate results and should be investigated. Heat raises yet

another question—the process of boiling the herb is likely to change the chemistry of hop and the entire

beer-making combination.

• 废啤酒花的化学成分或灰狗代谢啤酒花的方式可能与同一动物处理新鲜或干燥的球菌的方式有很大不

同。显然，啤酒花、麦芽糖浆、各种糖和啤酒酿造的其他元素之间的化学和生物化学关系可能是最

终结果的原因，应该进行研究。热量又引发了另一个问题——煮药草的过程可能会改变啤酒花和整

个啤酒酿造组合的化学成分。

• The hops used may have been compressed and therefore would have been concentrated.

• 使用的啤酒花可能已被压缩，因此会被浓缩。

• Although we still do not know why, it appears that greyhounds are especially predisposed to this problem, and

therefore they should never be fed hops.

• 尽管我们仍然不知道原因，但灰狗似乎特别容易出现此问题，因此永远不应该给它们喂食啤酒花。

In light of this problem, a subsequent study was conducted and published in The Journal of the American

Veterinary Medical Association. The study found that all of the greyhounds examined in an emergency clinic for the

disorder had ingested approximately 250 milliliters of spent hops each—that’s about one cup. Spent brewing hops

are sweet and tasty, making them a target for gluttony and toxic excess. Despite the fact that there have been no

additional reports of hopsrelated hyperthermia in dogs ten years later, caution dictates that it is best to limit your

dogs’ access to spent homebrew hops, especially if your pet is a greyhound. Limit your use of hops to small

quantities of a high-quality formulation designed for animals, or use unadulterated fresh or dried hops with

moderation.

鉴于这个问题，随后进行了一项研究并发表在《美国兽医协会杂志》上。研究发现，在急诊室检查的所

有灵缇犬均摄入了大约 250 毫升废啤酒花，即大约一杯啤酒花。用过的酿造啤酒花又甜又可口，使它们成

为暴饮暴食和有毒过量的目标。尽管十年后没有更多关于狗与啤酒花相关的体温过高的报道，但谨慎的态

度表明，最好限制你的狗接触用过的自制啤酒花，特别是如果你的宠物是灵缇犬。将啤酒花的使用量限制

在专为动物设计的高质量配方中，或者适量使用纯净的新鲜或干燥啤酒花。

=== PAGE 228 ===
HORSETAIL

马尾

Equisetum arvense

木贼

Horsetail Family

马尾家族

Appearance: The horsetail family is generally divided into three groups: (1) annual varieties that produce separate

and distinctly different fertile and sterile stems, (2) annuals that produce sterile and fertile stems that are similar in

appearance, and (3) evergreen perennials that produce fertile and sterile stems that are alike. Despite these variances,

the entire family shares fundamentally similar characteristics: hollow, distinctively grooved and jointed stems and

dark, scalelike leaves that appear as sheaths surrounding the stems at the joints. In early spring, Equisetum arvense

produces a small 3- to 12-inch fertile stem that lacks chlorophyll (the constituent that makes plants green). This stem

dies back as its larger green, sterile counterpart matures. The subsequent, 6-inch to 2-foot-tall sterile stems have

whorled branches that resemble green bottlebrushes. Equisetum hyemale is much larger (up to 5 feet tall) and lacks

any branching characteristics. It looks like a prehistoric cross between miniature bamboo and an asparagus spear.

Both species are often seen growing side by side.

外观：木贼科通常分为三类：（1）一年生品种，产生独立且明显不同的可育和不育茎，（2）产生外观相

似的不育和可育茎的一年生植物，以及（3）常绿多年生植物产生相似的可育茎和不育茎。尽管存在这些差

异，整个家族都具有基本相似的特征：中空、有明显凹槽和关节的茎，以及在关节处围绕茎的鞘状黑色鳞

片状叶子。早春，问荆会长出 3 至 12 英寸的可育茎，但缺乏叶绿素（使植物呈绿色的成分）。当其较大的

绿色、不育的对应物成熟时，该茎就会枯死。随后的 6 英寸至 2 英尺高的不育茎具有类似于绿色洗瓶刷的

轮生枝。木贼属植物较大（高达 5 英尺）并且缺乏任何分枝特征。它看起来像是史前微型竹子和芦笋矛的

结合体。人们经常看到这两个物种并排生长。

Habitat and Range: Lakeshores, stream banks, and other wet areas, up into alpine elevations throughout North

America. Horsetails often represent the primary ground cover in shady wet thickets.

栖息地和范围：湖岸、河岸和其他潮湿地区，直至整个北美的高山海拔。马尾草通常代表阴凉潮湿灌木丛

中的主要地面覆盖物。

Cycle and Bloom Season: The green sterile plants emerge in spring. Perennial varieties remain green and usable

throughout the year; annual varieties die back in late fall.

周期和开花季节：绿色不育植物在春天出现。多年生品种全年保持绿色可用；一年生品种在深秋死去。

Parts Used: All aerial parts

使用零件：所有空中零件

Primary Medicinal Activities: Diuretic, astringent, stops bleeding, tonic

主要药用活性： 利尿、收敛、止血、滋补

Strongest Affinities: Musculoskeletal system, skin, and hair

=== PAGE 229 ===
最强的亲和力：肌肉骨骼系统、皮肤和头发

Preparation: Tincture or decoction for internal uses; a poultice for external compresses

制剂：内服酊剂或汤剂；一种用于外敷的膏药

Common Uses: Horsetail contains a vast array of synergistic chemical compounds that all contribute to myriad

medicinal uses, but most notable is its usefulness in healing bone and connective tissue injuries.

常见用途：马尾草含有大量的协同化合物，这些化合物都具有多种药用用途，但最值得注意的是它在治疗

骨骼和结缔组织损伤方面的用途。

Most of horsetail’s regenerative actions in the musculoskeletal system can be attributed to its remarkable content

of bioactive silicon. In the body, silicon is a fundamental starting point, or matrix, for the formation of bone,

cartilage, skin, and other connective tissues, including those of the aorta and trachea. Silicon is perhaps the most

common element on earth. In fact, most of the sand on our planet is composed largely of silicon but not in a form

that can be absorbed and used by the body. The silicon contained in horsetail is unique in that it is in a form that can

be metabolized for tissue repair and development.

问荆在肌肉骨骼系统中的大部分再生作用可归因于其显着的生物活性硅含量。在体内，硅是形成骨骼、

软骨、皮肤和其他结缔组织（包括主动脉和气管）的基本起点或基质。硅可能是地球上最常见的元素。事

实上，我们星球上的大部分沙子主要由硅组成，但不是可以被人体吸收和利用的形式。问荆中所含的硅的

独特之处在于，它的形式可以通过代谢来促进组织修复和发育。

For you and your companion, horsetail can help speed recovery from joint and bone injuries, including

postsurgical trauma. For internal use, a decoction or tincture preparation is needed. Horsetail is poorly water soluble

and is abrasive, so unless it is put into a form that the body can easily absorb, it may cause irritation to the urinary

tract and kidneys.

对于您和您的同伴来说，马尾草可以帮助加快关节和骨骼损伤（包括术后创伤）的恢复。内服时需要煎

剂或酊剂。问荆的水溶性差且具有磨蚀性，因此除非将其制成易于人体吸收的形式，否则可能会对尿道和

肾脏造成刺激。

To make a decoction, take a large handful of the dried herb and place it into a nonmetallic cooking vessel (to

avoid picking up metallic residues). Add a ½ teaspoon of sugar and enough water to barely cover the herb. The

sugar helps to extract the silicon constituents and makes a more palatable finished product. Simmer the mixture over

low heat for about twenty minutes or until the water has turned dark green. Strain through a fine cloth and allow to

cool. The clarified decoction can be added directly to your companion’s food—1 tablespoon per 20 pounds of the

animal’s body weight daily, five days a week. Horsetail tincture can be used the same way but at a smaller dosage of

¼ teaspoon (1 milliliter) per 20 pounds of body weight.

要制作汤剂，请取一大把干燥的草药并将其放入非金属烹饪容器中（以避免沾染金属残留物）。添加 ½

茶匙糖和足够的水，刚好没过药草。糖有助于提取硅成分并制成更美味的成品。用小火将混合物煮约二十

分钟或直到水变成深绿色。用细布过滤并冷却。澄清的汤剂可以直接添加到您同伴的食物中——每天每 20

磅动物体重添加 1 汤匙，每周 5 天。马尾酊的使用方法相同，但剂量较小，为每 20 磅体重 1/4 茶匙（1 毫

升）。

Horsetail is also useful for a variety of urinary tract problems, particularly those that involve bleeding or an

accumulation of superfluous tissue in the urinary tract. The hemolytic and antimicrobial properties of horsetail make

it beneficial for urinary tract infections that involve minor bleeding from the bladder or urethra. To help avoid

urinary tract irritation during long-term use (more than ten days), it’s a good idea to use horsetail in conjunction with

soothing, protecting, and lubricating herbs such as marshmallow, plantain, or chickweed. Marshmallow is our first

choice because it adds excellent antimicrobial properties to the therapeutic effort.

马尾草还可用于治疗各种泌尿道问题，特别是涉及泌尿道出血或多余组织堆积的问题。马尾草的溶血和

抗菌特性使其有益于涉及膀胱或尿道轻微出血的尿路感染。为了避免长期使用（超过十天）时出现尿路刺

激，最好将木贼草与具有舒缓、保护和润滑功效的草药（如棉花糖、车前草或繁缕）结合使用。棉花糖是

我们的首选，因为它为治疗效果增添了卓越的抗菌特性。

=== PAGE 230 ===
There is evidence to support claims that horsetail may help prevent bone degeneration, skin and coat disorders,

and even senility in older animals. Scientific studies have concluded that as a body ages, silicon levels in the

circulatory system and skin decrease, which in turn leads to tissue degeneration and a diminished capacity to form

new tissue. Other studies suggest that horsetail may be useful in preventing certain forms of senility and

degenerative bone disease, namely those directly related to the balance between silicon and aluminum in the body.

In theory, these ailments may result from a toxic excess of aluminum, a condition normally counteracted by the

presence of silicic acid, silicon, and other vital compounds that are contained in horsetail. In other words, dietary

supplementation with horsetail may help maintain a healthful balance of silicon in the bodies of aging animals. See

your holistic veterinarian to ascertain if and how much horsetail is suitable for your companion.

有证据支持马尾草可能有助于预防老年动物骨骼退化、皮肤和皮毛疾病，甚至衰老的说法。科学研究得

出的结论是，随着身体年龄的增长，循环系统和皮肤中的硅含量会降低，进而导致组织退化和形成新组织

的能力下降。其他研究表明木贼可能有助于预防某些形式的衰老和退行性骨病，即那些与体内硅和铝之间

的平衡直接相关的疾病。从理论上讲，这些疾病可能是由于铝过量而引起的，这种情况通常可以通过木贼

中含有的硅酸、硅和其他重要化合物来抵消。换句话说，膳食补充木贼可能有助于维持衰老动物体内硅的

健康平衡。请咨询您的整体兽医，以确定马尾是否适合以及多少适合您的伴侣。

Availability: A common plant throughout most of the world. The dried herb and tincture are available through herb

retailers.

可用性：世界大部分地区常见的植物。干药草和酊剂可通过药草零售商购买。

Propagation and Harvest: For medicine of optimum quality, harvest E. arvense in mid–to late spring while the

leaves of the bottlebrush-like plant still point skyward. Later, as the leaves spread horizontally, they become less

water soluble and therefore do not make as good a medicine. Clip the plants just above ground level, and spread

them out on a piece of newspaper to dry thoroughly before use.

繁殖和收获：为了获得最佳质量的药物，应在春季中后期收获问荆，此时洗瓶刷状植物的叶子仍指向天

空。后来，随着叶子水平展开，它们的水溶性降低，因此不能成为很好的药物。将植物夹在地面上方，然

后将它们铺在一张报纸上，在使用前彻底干燥。

Alternatives and Adjuncts: Combines well with marshmallow, cleavers, plantain, chickweed, corn silk, or couch

grass for urinary tract problems. To help in the healing of bone and connective tissue injuries, horsetail tincture

combines well with comfrey or nettle and serves as an excellent adjunct to glucosamine and chondroiton sulfate

supplements. For nervous system support in older animals, horsetail serves as an excellent adjunct to hawthorn and

ginkgo.

替代品和辅助品：与棉花糖、切肉刀、车前草、繁缕、玉米须或沙发草完美结合，治疗尿路问题。为了帮

助骨骼和结缔组织损伤的愈合，木贼酊剂与紫草或荨麻很好地结合在一起，是葡萄糖胺和硫酸软骨素补充

剂的极好辅助剂。对于老年动物的神经系统支持，问荆是山楂和银杏的绝佳辅助品。

=== PAGE 231 ===
Equisetum arvense

木贼

Cautions and Comments: Do not use horsetail in cases of hypertension or cardiac disease. Horsetail may cause

breast milk to change flavor during lactation. If there is a history of silicate stones of the urinary system, caution

should be used. Do not gather this plant from areas that are downstream of commercial farming activities as it may

contain inorganic nitrates that are metabolized into abnormal nicotine-like alkaloids. Livestock have reportedly been

poisoned by eating large quantities of horsetail, possibly due to alkaloid interfering with either the production or use

of vitamin B1.

注意事项和评论：患有高血压或心脏病的人不要使用马尾草。马尾草可能会导致母乳在哺乳期间改变味

道。如果有泌尿系统硅酸盐结石病史，应谨慎使用。不要从商业农业活动下游的地区采集这种植物，因为

它可能含有无机硝酸盐，这些硝酸盐会代谢成异常的尼古丁样生物碱。据报道，牲畜因食用大量木贼草而

中毒，这可能是由于生物碱干扰了维生素 B 1 的产生或使用。

=== PAGE 232 ===
JUNIPER

杜松

Juniperus spp.

杜松属

Cypress Family

柏树家族

Appearance: There are over 130 species of juniper worldwide; about 26 of these species are native to North

America. The berries of all are useful, but Juniperus communis (common juniper) has a reputation among herbalists

and wild food epicureans as having the berries with the strongest medicine.

外观：全世界有130多种杜松；其中约 26 个物种原产于北美。所有的浆果都很有用，但杜松（Juniperus

communis）在草药学家和野食美食家中享有盛誉，因为它的浆果具有最强的药效。

Species of this large genus of evergreens are differentiated by their size (trees or low-growing shrubs) and the

specific characteristics of their leaves (needlelike or scalelike). All junipers can be easily identified by their foliage

and cones (commonly called juniper berries), which have a strong and distinctive ginlike aroma.

这种大型常绿植物属的物种根据其大小（乔木或低矮灌木）和叶子的具体特征（针状或鳞片状）来区

分。所有杜松子都可以通过其叶子和球果（通常称为杜松子）轻松识别，这些杜松子具有强烈而独特的杜

松子酒香气。

Habitat and Range: Common juniper is generally a mountain shrub that can be found on rocky hillsides and forest

clearings up to about 10,000 feet in elevation. Juniper is widespread from Alaska to California and throughout much

of temperate North America. The aforementioned tree varieties are high-desert dwellers of eastern California,

Nevada, Utah, Colorado, Wyoming, Arizona, and New Mexico.

栖息地和范围：常见的杜松通常是一种山地灌木，可以在海拔约 10,000 英尺的岩石山坡和森林空地上找

到。杜松广泛分布于从阿拉斯加到加利福尼亚以及北美温带大部分地区。上述树木品种是加利福尼亚州东

部、内华达州、犹他州、科罗拉多州、怀俄明州、亚利桑那州和新墨西哥州的高沙漠居民。

Cycle and Bloom Season: Evergreen, producing fruits that take two to three years to ripen

周期和开花季节：常绿，产生需要两到三年才能成熟的果实

Parts Used: Fruits (berries) and leaves (often called needles)

使用部分：水果（浆果）和叶子（通常称为针）

Primary Medicinal Activities: Astringent, diuretic, antimicrobial, strengthens kidney function, lowers blood sugar,

tonic

主要药用活性：收敛、利尿、抗菌、增强肾功能、降低血糖、滋补

Strongest Affinities: Genitourinary system (including the kidneys), skin

最强的亲和力：泌尿生殖系统（包括肾脏）、皮肤

=== PAGE 233 ===
Preparation: Decoction of the leaves or berries, tincture (berries), or whole (dried or fresh) berries can be fed

directly or as a food additive.

制备：叶子或浆果的汤剂、酊剂（浆果）或整个（干或新鲜）浆果可以直接喂养或作为食品添加剂。

Common Uses: Recent scientific studies conducted at the College of Medicine at Taiwan National University and

the Universidad de Granada in Spain have shown that juniper offers new hope in the treatment of diabetes and

cardiovascular disease. In the study conducted in Spain, a decoction of ripe juniper berries was administered to both

diabetic and healthy rats. In both test groups, the decoction was found to lower blood glucose levels by increasing

glucose uptake in the diaphragm, while at the same time increasing the amount of insulin released from the

pancreas. The result was a lower mortality rate in animals with insulin-dependent diabetes and new hope for those

with other forms of diabetes. In the study conducted in Taiwan, a compound derivative of the berries called 14

acetoxycedrol was found to have anticoagulant effects in the blood and a relaxing action on vascular tissues, actions

that should prove useful in reducing the risk of cardiovascular disease in humans and other animals. In the minds of

modern herbalists, these wonderful new discoveries only add to juniper’s long history as a healing ally.

常见用途：台湾国立大学医学院和西班牙格拉纳达大学最近进行的科学研究表明，杜松子为治疗糖尿病和

心血管疾病带来了新的希望。在西班牙进行的一项研究中，给患有糖尿病的老鼠和健康的老鼠服用了成熟

杜松子的汤剂。在两个测试组中，发现该汤剂通过增加隔膜中的葡萄糖摄取来降低血糖水平，同时增加胰

腺释放的胰岛素量。结果是患有胰岛素依赖型糖尿病的动物死亡率降低，并为患有其他形式糖尿病的动物

带来了新的希望。在台湾进行的一项研究中，发现一种名为 14 acetoxycedrol 的浆果化合物衍生物具有抗血

液凝结作用和对血管组织的松弛作用，这些作用应该被证明有助于降低人类和其他动物患心血管疾病的风

险。在现代草药学家的心目中，这些奇妙的新发现只会增添杜松作为治疗盟友的悠久历史。

During the black plague, many European physicians carried three or four juniper berries in their mouth at all times

to prevent infection. Medical instruments were soaked in a disinfecting decoction of the berries. Native Americans

used every part of the shrub for a variety of ailments ranging from sore throats to dandruff, sometimes bathing their

horses in a root tea to improve their coats. In fact, juniper has been used as a food and medicine for thousands of

years by cultures the world over and remains an ingredient in several mainstream over-the-counter diuretic and

laxative remedies today. The berries are a valuable culinary commodity as well, being used as the primary flavoring

agent in gin and as a rather expensive seasoning for gourmet dishes. (We like to use them in place of bay leaves in

chili and wild-food dishes.)

黑死病期间，许多欧洲医生嘴里一直含着三四个杜松子，以防止感染。将医疗器械浸泡在浆果的消毒汤

中。美洲原住民利用灌木的各个部分来治疗从喉咙痛到头皮屑等各种疾病，有时用根茶给马洗澡以改善皮

毛。事实上，数千年来，杜松子一直被世界各地的文化用作食品和药物，并且仍然是当今几种主流非处方

利尿剂和泻药的成分。这些浆果也是一种有价值的烹饪商品，被用作杜松子酒的主要调味剂和相当昂贵的

美食调味料。 （我们喜欢用它们代替辣椒和野味菜肴中的月桂叶。）

Modern-day herbalists use juniper to treat edema and arthritis as well as acute and severe cystitis and other

infections of the urinary tract. Juniper is also known to stimulate kidney function by increasing the rate of

glomerulus filtration, the process by which the kidneys filter out impurities and cleanse the blood. In lay terms,

juniper increases urine production and waste elimination. This effect is due to an irritant action attributable to

juniper’s generous content of volatile oils, especially one called terpineol. Because of these irritating effects, juniper

should never be used in animals with preexisting kidney problems, nor should it be used over long periods of time.

Also, juniper is known to have a vasodilating action in the uterus and was once used to promote menstrual flow;

therefore, it should never be used in pregnant animals. Fortunately, all of this sounds more ominous than it really is

since many stimulatory herbs work because of their abilities to selectively irritate the body. When used over a very

short period in the correct dosages, and in nonpregnant animals with healthy kidneys, juniper can safely increase

renal circulation and boost overall kidney function.

现代草药师使用杜松来治疗水肿和关节炎以及急性和严重的膀胱炎和其他泌尿道感染。杜松子还可以通

过提高肾小球滤过率来刺激肾功能，肾小球滤过率是肾脏过滤杂质和净化血液的过程。通俗地说，杜松子

可以增加尿液的产生和废物的排出。这种作用是由于杜松子富含挥发油，尤其是松油醇而产生的刺激作

用。由于这些刺激作用，杜松子不应该用于已有肾脏问题的动物，也不应该长期使用。此外，杜松子具有

=== PAGE 234 ===
子宫血管舒张作用，曾被用来促进月经量。因此，切勿将其用于怀孕动物。幸运的是，所有这些听起来比

实际情况更不祥，因为许多刺激性草药之所以起作用，是因为它们能够选择性地刺激身体。当在很短的时

间内以正确的剂量使用杜松子时，以及在肾脏健康的非怀孕动物中，杜松子可以安全地增加肾脏循环并增

强整体肾功能。

The antiseptic and astringent properties of the berries or leaves may be useful in relieving itchiness and infections

of the skin when applied topically in the form of a cooled dilute rinse. Because the plant is not water soluble, you

will first need to make a simple decoction (see chapter 1). After the decoction has cooled, dilute it with enough cold

water to give it the appearance of a weak tea (you should be able to see through a clear 8-ounce glass of the liquid.

Now you can pour the liquid over your dog (and as long as you don’t mind a few claw scratches, your cat) until the

animal is thoroughly soaked. Avoid getting any into your animal’s eyes.

当以冷却的稀释冲洗液的形式局部使用时，浆果或叶子的防腐和收敛特性可能有助于缓解皮肤瘙痒和感

染。由于该植物不溶于水，因此您首先需要制作简单的汤剂（参见第 1 章）。汤剂冷却后，用足够的冷水

稀释，使其呈现出淡茶的外观（您应该能够透过一杯 8 盎司的透明液体看到液体。现在您可以将液体倒在

您的狗身上（并且只要您不介意一些爪子抓伤（您的猫），直到动物彻底浸湿，避免任何进入动物的眼

睛。

Juniperis communis

杜松

Before using juniper in a rinse, be sure that the decoction is well diluted. While problems seldom occur when

using juniper as a skin rinse, the volatile oils in the plant can be irritating if the solution is too strong, especially if

your animal has sensitive skin to start with. (By the way, this applies to peppermint, pennyroyal, and eucalyptus

rinses as well.)

在使用杜松子冲洗之前，请确保汤剂已充分稀释。虽然使用杜松子作为皮肤冲洗剂时很少出现问题，但

如果溶液太浓，植物中的挥发油可能会产生刺激，特别是如果您的动物皮肤本来就敏感。 （顺便说一下，

这也适用于薄荷、薄荷和桉树漱口水。）

=== PAGE 235 ===
After you rinse your pet, she will smell like a conifer forest on a warm spring day!

给你的宠物洗澡后，她会闻起来像温暖春日的针叶林！

Availability: Juniper berries are available at the supermarket, but they are much too expensive considering how

common the shrubs are. Juniper leaf and berry extracts are available through herb retailers. Several shrub and small

tree varieties are available from nurseries.

可用性：杜松子可以在超市买到，但考虑到这种灌木的常见程度，它们的价格太贵了。杜松叶和浆果提取

物可通过草药零售商购买。苗圃中有几种灌木和小树品种。

Propagation and Harvest: Several species of juniper have been domesticated and are available at your local

nursery. Juniperus communis is frequently used as a low-growing landscaping shrub and is an excellent choice for

walkway borders and flower beds. Junipers are easy to grow but tend to grow slowly. Once established, they are

cold hardy (especially J. communis), drought tolerant, and they require minimal maintenance. Soil quality is of little

concern to these plants, but they do appreciate at least a slightly acidic pH level, so if necessary, amend your soil

with some redwood compost. When you visit the nursery, remember that only the female plants bear the sought-after

berries and that you will need at least two plants (a male and a female) to produce fruit.

繁殖和收获：几种杜松已经被驯化，可以在当地的苗圃中获得。杜松经常用作低矮的园林绿化灌木，是人

行道边界和花坛的绝佳选择。杜松很容易生长，但往往生长缓慢。一旦建立，它们就耐寒（尤其是J.

communis），耐旱，并且需要最少的维护。这些植物并不关心土壤质量，但它们至少喜欢微酸性的 pH

值，因此如有必要，请用一些红木堆肥来改良土壤。当您参观苗圃时，请记住，只有雌性植物才能结出受

欢迎的浆果，并且您至少需要两棵植物（雄性和雌性）才能结出果实。

Alternatives and Adjuncts: For inflammations of the urinary tract, consider couch grass, gravelroot, corn silk,

plantain, and uva ursi before using juniper. Marshmallow adds soothing and lubricating protection when added to

juniper. For urinary tract infections, look at echinacea, sage, thyme, and Oregon grape as alternatives or adjuncts.

For treating fleabites and other skin irritations, juniper combines well in a skin rinse with calendula, chamomile, or

peppermint (or for that matter, any kind of mint).

替代品和辅助剂：对于尿路炎症，在使用杜松子之前，请考虑使用沙发草、砾根、玉米须、车前草和熊

果。添加到杜松子中的棉花糖可增加舒缓和润滑保护。对于尿路感染，可以考虑使用紫锥菊、鼠尾草、百

里香和俄勒冈葡萄作为替代品或辅助品。为了治疗跳蚤和其他皮肤刺激，杜松子与金盏花、洋甘菊或薄荷

（或就此而言，任何种类的薄荷）在皮肤冲洗液中很好地结合在一起。

Cautions and Comments: Do not use juniper internally in animals with preexisting kidney disease or in pregnant or

lactating animals. The key rule with juniper is one that applies to all herbal remedies: Use with caution and always

in moderation. And remember, what may be deemed excessive for one animal may be inadequate for another.

Proper use of juniper is entirely dependent upon an accurate assessment of your companion’s specific needs and

medical condition. Please see your holistic veterinarian first.

注意事项和评论：请勿在患有肾脏疾病的动物或怀孕或哺乳期动物体内使用杜松子。杜松子的关键规则适

用于所有草药：谨慎使用并始终适量。请记住，对一种动物来说可能被认为过度的东西可能对另一种动物

来说却不够。正确使用杜松子完全取决于对您同伴的具体需求和医疗状况的准确评估。请先去看您的整体

兽医。

=== PAGE 236 ===
LAVENDER

薰衣草

Lavandula angustifolia

狭叶薰衣草

Mint Family

薄荷家族

Appearance: With its delicate spikelike flowers, narrow silvery leaves, and sweet fragrance, lavender is a beautiful

adornment to any garden. There are several cultivars of Lavandula; the one most commonly found in nurseries is

English lavender (L. angustifolia).

外观：薰衣草拥有精致的穗状花朵、狭长的银色叶子和甜美的香气，是任何花园的美丽装饰品。薰衣草有

多个品种；苗圃中最常见的一种是英国薰衣草（L. angustifolia）。

Habitat and Range: A Mediterranean native that is in cultivation throughout much of the world

栖息地和分布范围：原产于地中海地区，在世界大部分地区都有种植

Cycle and Bloom Season: A perennial that blooms in early to midsummer

周期和开花季节：在初夏至仲夏开花的多年生植物

Parts Used: Flowers, leaves, and stems

使用部位：花、叶、茎

Primary Medicinal Activities: Elevates mood (antidepressive), antibacterial, astringent, analgesic, antispasmodic,

tonic

主要药用活性： 提升情绪（抗抑郁）、抗菌、收敛、镇痛、解痉、滋补

Strongest Affinities: Skin, nervous system, respiratory tract, joints

最强的亲和力：皮肤、神经系统、呼吸道、关节

Preparation: Diluted essential oil, tea, dried flower bunches, sachets

准备：稀释精油、茶叶、干花束、香袋

Common Uses: The essential oil of lavender works wonders to calm a nervous or excited animal. In depressed or

aggressive animals, lavender can be used to lift spirits and adjust attitudes. In these applications, the oil is not

applied to the animal itself but is used in aromatherapy. An open bottle of the oil is waved under the animal’s

nostrils, or a few drops are put on a piece of cardboard that is placed near the animal’s bedding, under a car seat, or

on the outside of a travel carrier. The sweet aroma helps the animal (and her human guardian) to relax during an

otherwise restless experience. Oftentimes the effects are instantaneous. A small sachet bag can be filled with

lavender flowers and placed near the animal for the same (but less reliable) effect.

=== PAGE 237 ===
常见用途：薰衣草精油可以神奇地安抚紧张或兴奋的动物。对于抑郁或有攻击性的动物，薰衣草可以用来

振奋精神和调整态度。在这些应用中，油不应用于动物本身，而是用于芳香疗法。将一瓶打开的油在动物

的鼻孔下晃动，或者将几滴油滴在一块纸板上，该纸板放在动物的床上用品附近、汽车座椅下方或旅行箱

的外部。甜美的香气有助于动物（和她的人类监护人）在焦躁不安的经历中放松。通常效果是立竿见影

的。可以用一个小香袋装满薰衣草花并将其放在动物附近，以获得相同（但不太可靠）的效果。

A few drops of the essential oil can be added to some water and placed in a vaporizer (or a potpourri simmering

pot) and used to treat coughs and respiratory infections. When emitted near the animal in a closed room, the vapor

helps to open respiratory passages and inhibit bacterial reproduction in the lungs.

可以将几滴精油加入一些水中，然后放入蒸发器（或花香炖锅）中，用于治疗咳嗽和呼吸道感染。当在

封闭房间内的动物附近排放时，蒸气有助于打开呼吸道并抑制肺部细菌繁殖。

For joint inflammation, stiffness, or pain, 10 drops of the essential oil can be added to 1 ounce of apricot kernel or

almond oil (these absorb into skin more readily than olive oil). The mixture then can be liberally massaged into the

affected area to bring relief. The oil mixture is also useful for insect bites and stings and is an excellent addition to

first aid salves.

对于关节发炎、僵硬或疼痛，可将 10 滴精油添加到 1 盎司杏仁油或杏仁油中（这些精油比橄榄油更容易

被皮肤吸收）。然后可以将混合物充分按摩到受影响的区域以缓解疼痛。这种油混合物还可用于治疗昆虫

叮咬和蜇伤，并且是急救药膏的绝佳补充。

A good tick repellent oil for dogs can be made from 300 milliliters of olive oil or other oil, 500 milliliters of

essential oil of terebinth, 100 milliliters of Saint-John’s-wort–infused oil, and 100 milliliters of essential oil of

lavender. This recipe makes about a liter of the oil. It can be massaged on affected areas to help ticks drop off. As a

preventative, it can be massaged on areas of the dog that are most likely to come into contact with ticks. Avoid using

essential oils on or around cats.

好的狗用驱蜱油可以由 300 毫升橄榄油或其他油、500 毫升松节油、100 毫升圣约翰草浸油和 100 毫升薰

衣草精油制成。这个食谱大约可以制作一升油。可以在受影响的区域进行按摩，以帮助蜱虫脱落。作为预

防措施，可以在狗最有可能接触蜱虫的部位进行按摩。避免在猫身上或周围使用精油。

A tea of the fresh or dried flowers, leaves, and stems can be used as an external skin rinse for relief from pain and

itching caused by seborrhea, contact dermatitis, or fleabites. The rinse helps to fight bacterial infection as well. Be

sure the rinse is well diluted—the water should be slightly tinted but still fragrant.

新鲜或干燥的花、叶和茎的茶可用作外部皮肤冲洗剂，以缓解由皮脂溢、接触性皮炎或跳蚤引起的疼痛

和瘙痒。冲洗也有助于对抗细菌感染。确保冲洗液充分稀释——水应该稍微有颜色，但仍然有香味。

=== PAGE 238 ===
Lavandula angustifolia

狭叶薰衣草

Availability: The essential oil can be purchased through natural product retailers, as can the dried flowers. Plants

are available through most nurseries.

可用性：精油和干花都可以通过天然产品零售商购买。大多数苗圃都可以买到植物。

Propagation and Harvest: Lavender is winter hardy, drought resistant, and easy to grow from transplants. Plants

prefer well-drained, sandy soil with a pH between 6.4 and 8.3 (acidic soil should be amended with hydrated lime or

soft rock phosphate).

繁殖和收获：薰衣草耐寒，抗旱，易于移植生长。植物喜欢排水良好、pH 值在 6.4 至 8.3 之间的沙质土壤

（酸性土壤应使用熟石灰或软磷矿进行改良）。

Alternatives and Adjuncts: For joint problems, lavender combines with yarrow, arnica, Saint-John’s-wort, or

cayenne. For respiratory infections, try adding yarrow to a vaporizer. For calming effects, lavender aromatherapy

used in conjunction with an internal dose of passionflower, skullcap, valerian, or hop can be effective.

替代品和辅助品：对于关节问题，薰衣草可与西洋蓍草、山金车、圣约翰草或辣椒搭配使用。对于呼吸道

感染，请尝试将西洋蓍草添加到蒸发器中。为了达到镇静效果，薰衣草芳香疗法与内服西番莲、黄芩、缬

草或啤酒花结合使用可能会有效。

Cautions and Comments: Although all parts of the dried or above-ground parts of this plant are generally safe

when used in raw form or in simple teas, the highly concentrated essential oil of lavender can be very hard on the

liver and kidneys. Therefore, it should not be ingested. Nor should the oil be used on the skin in undiluted form

because it may cause irritation. Avoid using essential oils on or around cats.

注意事项和评论：虽然这种植物的干燥或地上部分的所有部分在以生形式或简单的茶中使用时通常是安全

=== PAGE 239 ===
的，但薰衣草的高度浓缩精油可能对肝脏和肾脏非常不利。因此，不应摄入。该油也不应该以未稀释的形

式用于皮肤，因为它可能会引起刺激。避免在猫身上或周围使用精油。

=== PAGE 240 ===
LICORICE

甘草

Glycyrrhiza glabra

光果甘草

and G. lepidota

和 G. lepidota

Pea Family

豌豆家族

Appearance: Licorice is a member of the pea family and can be characterized by its greenish white, pealike axillary

flowers; pinnately divided pealike leaves (divided into pairs of lance-shaped leaflets); and inclination to climb and

tangle among other plants. At first glance, licorice looks like any one of thousands of wild legumes. Fortunately, our

wild American licorice (Glycyrrhiza lepidota) has characteristics that make it unique and easy to identify. It is a

large legume (3–7 feet tall when mature) with an exceptionally stout reddish main stem. But even more

distinguishing are its 1/2-inch-long, tightly clustered seed pods, which are covered with conspicuous hooked spines.

No other legume in North America presents this characteristic.

外观：甘草是豌豆科的一员，其特征是其腋生绿白色、豌豆状的花；羽状分裂的豌豆状叶子（分成成对的

矛状小叶）；以及攀爬和与其他植物纠缠的倾向。乍一看，甘草就像数千种野生豆类中的任何一种。幸运

的是，我们的野生美国甘草（Glycyrrhiza lepidota）具有独特且易于识别的特征。它是一种大型豆科植物

（成熟时高 3-7 英尺），具有异常粗壮的微红色主茎。但更显着的是它的 1/2 英寸长、紧密聚集的种荚，上

面覆盖着明显的钩状刺。北美没有其他豆科植物具有这种特征。

Habitat and Range: The vast majority of licorice root sold in North America is G. glabra, a native of southeast

Europe that probably came over with the first Anglo settlers. Of the twenty-five or so species that can be found

worldwide, we have only one native species in North America: G. lepidota. All other species have been naturalized

from Europe or Asia. American licorice occurs sporadically across North America, and like its alien relatives that in

many areas have escaped cultivation, it is generally to be found in moist ravines, in roadside ditches, in waste areas,

and along the banks of irrigation canals where soils are rich and deep.

栖息地和分布范围：北美销售的绝大多数甘草是 G. glabra，原产于欧洲东南部，可能是随着第一批盎格鲁

殖民者来到这里的。在世界范围内发现的大约二十五个物种中，我们只有北美的本地物种：G. lepidota。所

有其他物种都是从欧洲或亚洲归化的。美洲甘草在北美各地零星出现，与许多地区已不再种植的外来亲戚

一样，它通常出现在潮湿的峡谷、路边沟渠、荒地以及土壤肥沃的灌溉渠沿岸。和深。

Cycle and Bloom Season: A biennial or short-lived perennial that reproduces by seed. Blooms in midsummer.

周期和开花季节：通过种子繁殖的两年生或短命多年生植物。盛夏时节盛开。

Parts Used: Roots

使用部位：根部

Primary Medicinal Activities: Expectorant; helps with blood cleansing; lubricates, soothes, and protects mucous

membranes; anti-inflammatory; antiviral; adrenal stimulant; mild laxative; immunostimulant.

=== PAGE 241 ===
主要药用活性：祛痰；有助于血液净化；润滑、舒缓和保护粘膜；消炎（药;抗病毒物质;肾上腺兴奋剂；温

和的泻药；免疫增强剂。

Strongest Affinities: Respiratory, digestive, and endocrine systems

最强的亲和力：呼吸系统、消化系统和内分泌系统

Preparation: Fresh or dried chopped root, tea, tincture

准备：新鲜或干燥的切碎的根、茶、酊剂

Common Uses: Numerous studies have confirmed that licorice is an effective and fast-acting anti-inflammatory

agent. In fact, many herbalists regard it as nature’s answer to hydrocortisone and claim that it potentiates the

effectiveness of other herbs when added to compound formulas. All of this is primarily attributable to licorice’s

content of glycyrrhizin, a compound with a chemical structure similar to that of the corticosteroids that are naturally

released by the body’s adrenal glands. Glycyrrhizin effectively stimulates the adrenals into action and is especially

useful for treating Addison’s disease.

常见用途：大量研究已证实甘草是一种有效且速效的抗炎剂。事实上，许多草药学家将其视为氢化可的松

的天然答案，并声称将其添加到复合配方中可增强其他草药的功效。所有这一切主要归功于甘草中的甘草

甜素，这是一种化学结构类似于人体肾上腺自然释放的皮质类固醇的化合物。甘草甜素可有效刺激肾上腺

发挥作用，对于治疗阿狄森氏病特别有用。

Licorice provides anti-inflammatory, antimicrobial, immunostimulant, and corticosteroid-like actions—thus

helping to relieve pain, itching, and inflammation without completely bypassing the body’s normal anti-

inflammatory functions and without seriously compromising the immune system. This makes licorice useful for a

wide variety of inflammatory diseases. In a study where arthritis was induced in rats through injections of

formaldehyde, a by-product of glycyrrhizin called glycyrrhetinic acid was produced in the body and was shown to

have obvious antiarthritic actions that were comparable to those of hydrocortisone. Glycyrrhizin has also been

shown to potentiate the effects of cortisone-like drugs in the body, which makes licorice a useful adjunct in

hydrocortisone therapies. The theory here is that the potentiating effect of licorice allows for lower drug dosages

without compromising therapeutic effectiveness. Used in this capacity, licorice should help reduce the debilitating

side effects of steroid drugs in long-term therapies and may also assure safe withdrawal when the patient is weaned

off of the steroids.

甘草具有抗炎、抗菌、免疫刺激和类皮质类固醇的作用，从而有助于缓解疼痛、瘙痒和炎症，而不会完

全绕过身体的正常抗炎功能，也不会严重损害免疫系统。这使得甘草可用于治疗多种炎症性疾病。在一项

通过注射甲醛诱发大鼠关节炎的研究中，体内产生了甘草甜素的副产物甘草次酸，并显示出具有与氢化可

的松相当的明显抗关节炎作用。甘草甜素还被证明可以增强体内可的松类药物的作用，这使得甘草成为氢

化可的松疗法的有用辅助剂。这里的理论是，甘草的增强作用允许降低药物剂量而不影响治疗效果。以这

种方式使用，甘草应该有助于减少长期治疗中类固醇药物的衰弱副作用，并且还可以确保患者戒掉类固醇

后安全戒断。

The anti-inflammatory properties of licorice root are also apparent when the herb is topically applied. Licorice tea,

salve, or oil infusion can be used to relieve the uncomfortable symptoms of various skin disorders such as psoriasis,

eczema, contact dermatitis, and flea allergies. Used in this capacity, licorice provides a degree of relief during long-

term holistic therapies, including a detoxification and allergy therapy consisting of internal doses of burdock,

dandelion, alfalfa, or other alterative herbs. In this example, the animal receives relief from suffering, but the

underlying metabolic causes are also addressed through tonification of the involved body systems.

当局部使用甘草根时，其抗炎特性也很明显。甘草茶、药膏或油浸液可用于缓解各种皮肤病的不适症

状，如牛皮癣、湿疹、接触性皮炎和跳蚤过敏。甘草以这种方式使用，可以在长期整体治疗中提供一定程

度的缓解，包括由内服牛蒡、蒲公英、苜蓿或其他替代草药组成的排毒和过敏治疗。在这个例子中，动物

从痛苦中得到缓解，但潜在的代谢原因也可以通过强化相关的身体系统来解决。

=== PAGE 242 ===
Glycyrrhiza lepidota

鳞片甘草

To make a simple oil infusion, all you need is some chopped dried licorice root (available at any good herb

retailer) and some olive oil. Put the root into a glass jar and cover it with enough oil to leave a ½-inch layer of liquid

above the herb. Cover the jar tightly, put it in a warm (55–75° F) place, away from sunlight, and let it sit for one

month. After a month, strain the oil through a sieve, then squeeze what you can from the herb by wrapping it in

unbleached muslin or cheesecloth. You’ll have a sweet-tasting licorice oil that keeps for several months if

refrigerated. Use it topically as needed, but expect your companion to lick it off—it tastes like candy.

要制作简单的油浸液，您需要的只是一些切碎的干甘草根（任何好的草药零售商都可以买到）和一些橄

榄油。将根放入玻璃罐中，并用足够的油覆盖，在药草上方留下 0.5 英寸的液体层。盖紧罐子，将其放在温

暖（55–75° F）的地方，避免阳光照射，并放置一个月。一个月后，用筛子过滤油，然后用未漂白的平纹细

布或粗棉布包裹，尽可能地从药草中榨出油。您将获得一种甜味甘草油，如果冷藏，可以保存几个月。根

据需要局部使用它，但希望你的同伴把它舔掉——它尝起来像糖果。

In addition to its powerful anti-inflammatory actions, licorice root is beneficial in the treatment and prevention of

many forms of liver disease. Over the past two decades, medical researchers in China and Japan have found

(through animal studies) that extracts of licorice root are useful in the treatment of chronic and chemically induced

hepatitis and that the herb has liver-protectant qualities similar to those offered by the popular liver herb milk thistle

(Silybum marianum). However, the mechanisms by which licorice root works in the liver are quite different from

those of milk thistle. While milk thistle has been shown to resist liver cell destruction largely through protection of

the cell walls and by antioxidant actions, licorice works through a broader set of effects. In addition to a protectant

action that glycyrrhizin has upon the liver cells, licorice also enhances interferon and T cell production, two natural

actions that are critical to liver repair and general resistance to disease. In Chinese medicine, licorice is commonly

used as a liver detoxifier in the treatment of obstructive jaundice. And in several studies, licorice has been shown to

benefit animals suffering from liver damage due to absorbed or ingested toxins such as carbon tetrachloride.

除了强大的抗炎作用外，甘草根还有益于治疗和预防多种肝脏疾病。在过去的二十年里，中国和日本的

医学研究人员（通过动物研究）发现，甘草根提取物可用于治疗慢性和化学性肝炎，并且该草药具有与甘

=== PAGE 243 ===
草相似的护肝功效。流行的肝脏草本水飞蓟（Silybum marianum）。然而，甘草根在肝脏中的作用机制与奶

蓟草的作用机制有很大不同。虽然奶蓟草已被证明主要通过保护细胞壁和抗氧化作用来抵抗肝细胞破坏，

但甘草通过更广泛的作用发挥作用。甘草甜素除了对肝细胞具有保护作用外，还可以增强干扰素和 T 细胞

的产生，这两种自然作用对于肝脏修复和一般抗病能力至关重要。在中医中，甘草常用作肝脏解毒剂，用

于治疗梗阻性黄疸。多项研究表明，甘草对因吸收或摄入四氯化碳等毒素而遭受肝损伤的动物有益。

In a recent study, the root of G. uralensis (an Asian species of licorice) was found to have a potentiating effect on

the reticuloendothelial system, the body’s first line of defense against infection. In essence, the reticuloendothelial

system is composed of specialized cells whose jobs are to seek out and eliminate invading microbes and dead blood

cells, and licorice helps to stimulate these little bloodstream warriors into action.

最近的一项研究发现，G. uralensis（一种亚洲甘草）的根部被发现对网状内皮系统具有增强作用，网状内

皮系统是人体抵御感染的第一道防线。从本质上讲，网状内皮系统由专门的细胞组成，其工作是寻找并消

除入侵的微生物和死亡的血细胞，而甘草有助于刺激这些小血流战士采取行动。

Licorice is also an excellent demulcent, anti-inflammatory, and expectorant for the gastrointestinal and upper

respiratory tracts. It is especially good for healing ulceration of the stomach and reducing the gastric acid secretions

that often contribute to the severity of ulcers. For bronchitis, licorice works well at reducing inflammation while

adding antiviral, antibacterial, and soothing demulcent actions to any variety of other respiratory herbs that may be

employed such as mullein, coltsfoot, and grindelia.

甘草还是一种极好的胃肠道和上呼吸道镇静剂、抗炎剂和祛痰剂。它特别有利于治愈胃溃疡并减少胃酸

分泌，而胃酸分泌通常会导致溃疡的严重程度。对于支气管炎，甘草可以很好地减轻炎症，同时为任何其

他可能使用的呼吸道草药（如毛蕊花、款冬和银地草）添加抗病毒、抗菌和舒缓镇静作用。

When giving licorice to your animal, you are likely to find the best results when using liquid extracts (tinctures).

Feeding dried chopped roots to herbivores is fine if tolerated, but dogs and cats have short digestive tracts that may

not absorb the active constituents quickly and completely. Herb tinctures are free-form medicines: their active

components are readily available and quickly assimilated early in the digestive process. This means that less of the

active material is lost during digestion and more ends up in your cat instead of in her litter box. Dosage is entirely

dependent upon individual needs and circumstances and should be determined by a trained practitioner, but 12–20

drops per 20 pounds of body weight, two times daily, of low-alcohol licorice extract is a conservative starting point

for dogs, cats, and other small animals. Horses can be fed the equivalent of up to 1 ounce (10–30 grams) of the dried

root, or about 1/4 ounce of the tincture daily. You can triple the liquid dosages if you are using a cooled tea (1

teaspoon of the root to 1 cup of water).

给动物喂食甘草时，使用液体提取物（酊剂）可能会获得最佳效果。如果可以的话，将干切碎的根喂食

草动物是可以的，但狗和猫的消化道较短，可能无法快速且完全地吸收活性成分。草药酊剂是自由形式的

药物：其活性成分很容易获得，并在消化过程的早期迅速被吸收。这意味着消化过程中损失的活性物质更

少，更多的活性物质最终进入猫体内而不是猫砂盆中。剂量完全取决于个人需求和情况，应由训练有素的

从业者确定，但对于狗、猫、狗、猫等动物来说，每 20 磅体重 12-20 滴、每天两次的低酒精甘草提取物是

保守的起始剂量。和其他小动物。马每天可以喂食相当于 1 盎司（10-30 克）的干根，或大约 1/4 盎司的酊

剂。如果您使用冷茶（1 茶匙根部兑 1 杯水），则可以将液体剂量增加三倍。

Availability: Licorice can be planted from root cuttings or seed, both of which are available from nursery catalogs

that specialize in herbs.

可用性：甘草可以用根插条或种子种植，这两种材料都可以从专门种植草药的苗圃目录中获得。

Propagation and Harvest: To grow licorice in your garden, plant it in moist, deep, well-drained, nutrient-rich

sandy loam with a neutral to slightly alkaline pH. Although it is adaptable to various climates, licorice does best in

areas with long, warm growing seasons. (If you can’t meet these demands, don’t worry. This plant survives just

about anywhere.)

繁殖和收获：要在花园中种植甘草，请将其种植在潮湿、深厚、排水良好、营养丰富、pH值为中性至微碱

性的沙质壤土中。尽管甘草能适应各种气候，但它在生长季节长而温暖的地区表现最好。 （如果您不能满

足这些要求，请不要担心。这种植物几乎可以在任何地方生存。）

=== PAGE 244 ===
Dig the perennial roots during the fall of their third or fourth year of growth—younger roots won’t be as potent.

After digging, cut the roots into small pieces and dry them on newspaper, away from sunlight. The completely dried

roots keep for one to two years if properly stored in plastic bags in a cool, dry, dark place.

在多年生根生长的第三年或第四年的秋天挖掉它们——年轻的根不会那么有效。挖好后，将根切成小

块，放在报纸上晾干，避免阳光照射。如果将完全干燥的根正确存放在塑料袋中并存放在阴凉、干燥、黑

暗的地方，则可以保存一到两年。

Alternatives and Adjuncts: For stomach ulcers and other gastric disorders that are secondary to bacterial or

parasitic infection, licorice combines with Oregon grape. To provide secondary anti-inflammatory relief in the

gastrointestinal or urinary tract, consider corn silk, couch grass, or uva ursi as adjuncts. For respiratory problems,

consider elecampane, coltsfoot, grindelia, mullein, slippery elm, plantain, marshmallow, and wild cherry bark as

possible substitutes or adjuncts. For liver problems, look toward milk thistle, dandelion root, Oregon grape, red

clover, and burdock as possible adjuncts.

替代品和辅助剂：对于胃溃疡和继发于细菌或寄生虫感染的其他胃部疾病，甘草与俄勒冈葡萄相结合。为

了提供胃肠道或泌尿道的二次抗炎缓解作用，可以考虑使用玉米须、茅草或熊果作为辅助剂。对于呼吸系

统问题，可考虑将土木香、款冬、金蒂利亚、毛蕊花、滑榆、车前草、棉花糖和野樱桃树皮作为可能的替

代品或辅助品。对于肝脏问题，可以考虑使用水飞蓟、蒲公英根、俄勒冈葡萄、红三叶草和牛蒡作为可能

的辅助药物。

Cautions and Comments: As for all herbal medicines, the primary rule is moderation and insight when using

licorice. Throughout its long history as a medicine, licorice has been the subject of controversies. When used in

large, highly concentrated doses, especially over long periods, several hydrocortisone-like side effects may occur:

water retention, hypertension, loss of potassium, sodium retention, and other symptoms of adrenal hyperactivity. In

human studies, the large majority of these side effects have been observed following the excessive consumption of

European licorice candy, which is made from a concentrated pressed extract of the root. (American-produced

licorice candy contains absolutely no real licorice but instead an artificial flavoring or the extracts of other plants

that taste similar.) Most herbalists and practitioners agree that the risks of adverse side effects from licorice are

limited to those who abuse it. We, however, have never seen a case of licorice-induced toxicity. Nevertheless,

licorice should not be used with reckless abandon or in normal doses for periods exceeding two weeks without the

instruction of a qualified practitioner. If a licorice therapy does exceed two weeks, then the treated animal’s diet

should be adjusted to accommodate increased needs for potassium and to eliminate excess sodium. Dandelion leaf is

well indicated here because it works as an effective diuretic to prevent water retention while providing an excellent

source of supplemental potassium. Animals with preexisting cardiovascular conditions should not be given licorice

without professional guidance.

注意事项和评论：对于所有草药来说，使用甘草时的首要规则是适度和洞察力。纵观其作为药物的悠久历

史，甘草一直是争议的话题。当大剂量、高浓度使用时，尤其是长期使用时，可能会出现几种类似氢化可

的松的副作用：水潴留、高血压、钾流失、钠潴留和肾上腺功能亢进的其他症状。在人类研究中，大多数

副作用是在过量食用欧洲甘草糖后观察到的，欧洲甘草糖是由根部浓缩压榨提取物制成的。 （美国生产的

甘草糖绝对不含真正的甘草，而是含有人工香料或味道相似的其他植物提取物。）大多数草药师和从业者

都认为，甘草产生不良副作用的风险仅限于滥用它的人。然而，我们从未见过甘草引起的中毒案例。尽管

如此，在没有合格执业医师指导的情况下，不应鲁莽地放弃或以正常剂量使用甘草超过两周。如果甘草治

疗超过两周，则应调整受治疗动物的饮食，以适应对钾的需求增加并消除过量的钠。蒲公英叶在这里得到

很好的体现，因为它是一种有效的利尿剂，可以防止水潴留，同时提供补充钾的极好来源。未经专业指

导，不应给患有心血管疾病的动物服用甘草。

Licorice may temporarily elevate blood sugar levels and should be used with caution in diabetic animals. It has

also been shown to have estrogenic properties that may affect uterine functions. Therefore, licorice should be used

with caution in pregnant or nursing animals.

甘草可能会暂时升高血糖水平，对于糖尿病动物应谨慎使用。它还被证明具有可能影响子宫功能的雌激

素特性。因此，怀孕或哺乳的动物应谨慎使用甘草。

=== PAGE 245 ===
MARSHMALLOW

棉花糖

Althea officinalis

木槿花

Mallow Family

锦葵家族

Appearance: Marshmallow is a stout plant that may grow as high as 7 feet. It has alternate 3- to 5-lobed leaves and

showy 2- to 3-inch flowers that range in color from white to pale pink. The entire plant is covered with fine, soft

hairs, a trait that gives the foliage a dusty appearance.

外观：棉花糖是一种粗壮的植物，可长到 7 英尺高。它有 3 到 5 裂的叶子和艳丽的 2 到 3 英寸的花朵，颜

色从白色到淡粉色。整个植物都覆盖着细软的毛，这种特性使叶子看起来像灰尘一样。

Habitat and Range: A native of western and central Europe, marshmallow has become naturalized in the U.S.,

where it grows in marshes and moist meadows throughout the New England states. It has become a popular garden

herb throughout the world and is easy to grow.

栖息地和分布范围：棉花糖原产于西欧和中欧，现已在美国归化，生长在新英格兰各州的沼泽和潮湿的草

地上。它已成为世界各地流行的花园草本植物，并且易于种植。

Cycle and Bloom Season: A perennial that blooms from late June through September

周期和开花季节：多年生植物，从六月下旬到九月开花

Parts Used: Primarily the root. The foliage is useful, too, but does not make as good a medicine.

使用部位：主要是根部。叶子也很有用，但不能作为很好的药物。

Primary Medicinal Activities: Soothes and lubricates internal tissues, soothes skin, antimicrobial, lowers blood

sugar, immunostimulant.

主要药用活性：舒缓和润滑内部组织，舒缓皮肤，抗菌，降低血糖，免疫增强剂。

Strongest Affinities: Skin and respiratory, digestive, and urinary tracts

最强的亲和力：皮肤和呼吸道、消化道和泌尿道

Preparation: Tea, low-alcohol tincture, fresh or dried chopped root

准备：茶、低度酊剂、新鲜或干切碎的根

Common Uses: Marshmallow has a long history as a medicine. The word Althea is derived from the ancient Greek

word altheo, meaning “to cure.” With few exceptions, marshmallow is among the safest and most versatile herbs for

animals. The root of the mature plant contains up to 35 percent mucilage. This makes marshmallow useful in

situations that involve surface irritation of the skin or internal mucous membranes. It is particularly helpful for

=== PAGE 246 ===
urinary tract inflammations compounded by the presence of gravel in the urine (urinary calculus) and in digestive

disorders where ulceration or infection is further aggravated by the presence of food or other solids. In these cases,

marshmallow provides a soothing, lubricating, protective barrier between mucous membranes and substances that

contribute to the irritation. Marshmallow also soothes upper respiratory irritations that are secondary to a dry, raspy

cough. Used on the surface of the body, marshmallow brings relief to insect bites, stings, abscesses, and

inflammations that are secondary to injury or infection. In addition to the soothing nature of mucilage, marshmallow

has antimicrobial and immune-stimulating properties. In animal studies, it has been shown to be active against

Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Proteus vulgaris, and Staphylococcus aureus, bacterial infections that are commonly seen

in the digestive tract, urinary tract, skin, and ears of dogs, cats, horses, ferrets, and other animals. A dab of

marshmallow tincture also serves as an excellent antimicrobial lubricant for a rectal thermometer.

常见用途：棉花糖作为药物有着悠久的历史。 Althea 这个词源自古希腊词 altheo，意思是“治愈”。除少数例

外，棉花糖是对动物来说最安全、用途最广泛的草药之一。成熟植物的根部含有高达35%的粘液。这使得

棉花糖在涉及皮肤或内部粘膜表面刺激的情况下非常有用。它对于因尿液中存在砾石（尿结石）而引起的

尿路炎症以及因食物或其他固体的存在而进一步加剧溃疡或感染的消化系统疾病特别有帮助。在这些情况

下，棉花糖在粘膜和引起刺激的物质之间提供了舒缓、润滑、保护屏障。棉花糖还可以缓解继发于干咳、

刺耳咳嗽的上呼吸道刺激。棉花糖用于身体表面，可以缓解昆虫叮咬、蜇伤、脓肿以及继发于伤害或感染

的炎症。除了粘液的舒缓特性外，棉花糖还具有抗菌和免疫刺激特性。在动物研究中，它已被证明对铜绿

假单胞菌、普通变形杆菌和金黄色葡萄球菌具有活性，这些细菌感染常见于狗、猫、马、雪貂和狗的消化

道、尿道、皮肤和耳朵中。其他动物。少量棉花糖酊剂也可作为直肠温度计的极佳抗菌润滑剂。

For internal use of marshmallow root, a tea or low-alcohol tincture is usually the best choice. The dried or fresh

root may be a better option for problems such as colitis that are deep within the digestive system. This is because

marshmallow’s mucilage is highly water soluble and may not reach the lower end of the digestive tract unless it is

carried there in a solid container, namely the chopped or ground root.

对于内服棉花糖根来说，茶或低酒精酊剂通常是最好的选择。对于消化系统深处的结肠炎等问题，干燥

或新鲜的根可能是更好的选择。这是因为棉花糖的粘液高度水溶性，可能无法到达消化道的下端，除非它

被装在固体容器（即切碎或磨碎的根）中。

If you opt to use a tincture of this herb, make sure that it doesn’t contain more than 20 percent alcohol (actually,

none is needed). The mucilage constituents aren’t taken up well in alcohol, and if too much is used in the tincture-

making process, the end product will cause nausea when ingested. We like glycerin tinctures of this herb, not only

for this reason but because the glycerin itself adds soothing, protective qualities to the medicine. Marshmallow

glycerite can be squirted directly into an animal’s mouth—about ¼ teaspoon (1 milliliter) per 20 pounds of the

animal’s body weight, three times daily or as needed. Alternatively, a tea can be made by steeping a teaspoon of the

dried chopped root (or 2 teaspoons of fresh root) in 8 ounces of very hot water. Stir the tea frequently until it has

cooled to lukewarm. You should be able to feel the slippery, oily nature of the mucilage when you rub a few drops

of the tea between your thumb and index finger. If not, add more marshmallow root. One teaspoon of the tea is a

good starting dose for dogs. Cats usually benefit from a ½ teaspoon. It’s also good for lubricating and expelling fur

balls. For lower gastrointestinal problems or to help relieve constipation (in a manner similar to that of psyllium

husks), the dried powdered root can be added to an animal’s food at a rate of a ½ teaspoon for each pound of food

fed (¼ teaspoon for cats and other small animals), once or twice daily. For horses, 1 ounce of the powdered root can

be added to feed each day to aid in cases of cystitis, colitis, or chronic spasmodic colic.

如果您选择使用这种草药的酊剂，请确保其酒精含量不超过 20%（实际上，不需要）。粘液成分不能很

好地被酒精吸收，如果在酊剂制作过程中使用过多，最终产品在摄入时会引起恶心。我们喜欢这种草药的

甘油酊剂，不仅是因为这个原因，还因为甘油本身为药物增添了舒缓和保护作用。棉花糖甘油可以直接喷

入动物嘴中——每 20 磅动物体重约 1/4 茶匙（1 毫升），每天 3 次或根据需要。或者，也可以将一茶匙切

碎的干根（或 2 茶匙新鲜根）浸泡在 8 盎司的热水中来泡茶。经常搅拌茶直至其冷却至微温。当您在拇指

和食指之间滴几滴茶时，您应该能够感觉到粘液的滑腻感。如果没有，添加更多的棉花糖根。对于狗来

说，一茶匙茶是一个很好的起始剂量。猫通常受益于 ½ 茶匙。它也有利于润滑和排出毛球。对于下消化道

问题或帮助缓解便秘（类似于车前子壳），可以将干燥的根粉添加到动物食物中，每磅食物添加 ½ 茶匙

（猫为 ¼ 茶匙）和其他小动物），每天一次或两次。对于马，每天可在饲料中添加 1 盎司粉末状根，以帮

助治疗膀胱炎、结肠炎或慢性痉挛性绞痛。

For problems that are close to the rectum such as a swollen anal gland irritated by bowel movements, a small gel

capsule might be necessary to carry the root powder through the digestive tract to the problem area. Another option

=== PAGE 247 ===
is to administer a small amount of the cooled tea or glycerite as a rectal suppository using a soft plastic pipette or ear

syringe.

对于靠近直肠的问题，例如排便刺激的肛门腺肿胀，可能需要一个小凝胶胶囊将根粉通过消化道运送到

问题区域。另一种选择是使用软塑料移液管或耳部注射器将少量冷却的茶或甘油作为直肠栓剂给药。

Marshmallow has been shown to cause hypoglycemic activity in animals. Although more research is warranted,

marshmallow might be useful in treating certain forms of diabetes. See your holistic veterinarian before trying it in

this capacity.

棉花糖已被证明会引起动物的低血糖活性。尽管需要进行更多研究，但棉花糖可能有助于治疗某些形式

的糖尿病。在尝试这种能力之前，请先咨询您的整体兽医。

Althea officinalis

木槿花

Availability: Marshmallow plants are available through most nurseries. Marshmallow root and various preparations

are available through herb retailers.

可用性：大多数苗圃都可以买到棉花糖植物。药蜀葵根和各种制剂可通过药草零售商购买。

Propagation and Harvest: Marshmallow is easy to grow. It can be propagated by seed, root cuttings, or transplants.

Although it requires ample water, it’s not picky about soil and is hardy and drought tolerant once established.

Planting should occur in early spring. The roots are ready for harvest anytime during their third year of growth and

every year thereafter. You do not have to kill your plant to dig up some of the root—simply divide what you need

from the existing root system, and give the plant extra water until the roots regenerate.

繁殖和收获：棉花糖很容易种植。它可以通过种子、根插条或移植来繁殖。虽然它需要充足的水，但它对

土壤不挑剔，一旦建立就耐寒、耐旱。播种应在早春进行。根部在生长的第三年以及此后的每年都可以随

时收获。你不必杀死你的植物来挖出一些根——只需从现有的根系中划分出你需要的部分，并给植物额外

=== PAGE 248 ===
的水，直到根再生。

Alternatives and Adjuncts: For urinary problems, marshmallow combines well with couch grass, horsetail, uva

ursi, corn silk, echinacea, ginkgo, or any of the diuretic herbs. For coughs and upper respiratory irritations,

marshmallow combines with mullein, coltsfoot, elecampane, or grindelia. For digestive problems, consider

combining licorice, chamomile, calendula, cleavers, fennel, dill, or any variety of mint with marshmallow. In horses,

a combination of marshmallow, valerian, slippery elm, and licorice is good for a spastic colon. For infections or

irritations of the skin of most animals, calendula, mullein flower, garlic, comfrey, and aloe are all complemented by

marshmallow.

替代品和辅助品：对于泌尿系统问题，棉花糖可与茅草、马尾草、熊果、玉米须、紫锥菊、银杏或任何利

尿草药完美搭配。对于咳嗽和上呼吸道刺激，可将棉花糖与毛蕊花、款冬、土木香或银杏结合使用。对于

消化问题，可以考虑将甘草、洋甘菊、金盏花、菜刀、茴香、莳萝或任何种类的薄荷与棉花糖混合。对于

马来说，棉花糖、缬草、滑榆和甘草的组合对痉挛的结肠有好处。对于大多数动物的皮肤感染或刺激，金

盏花、毛蕊花、大蒜、紫草和芦荟都可以辅以棉花糖。

Cautions and Comments: Marshmallow has long been used as a food plant, and its safety is substantiated by many

years of use in both humans and animals. It is known to lower blood sugar levels, however, and therefore should be

used with caution in hypoglycemic animals. It may also retard the intestinal absorption of some drugs—at least for

short periods, until the thick, viscous mucilage can be broken down in the digestive tract.

注意事项和评论：棉花糖长期以来一直被用作食品植物，其安全性已通过人类和动物多年的使用得到证

实。然而，众所周知，它可以降低血糖水平，因此在低血糖动物中应谨慎使用。它还可能会延迟某些药物

的肠道吸收——至少在短时间内，直到粘稠的粘液在消化道中被分解。

=== PAGE 249 ===
MILK THISTLE

水飞蓟

Silybum marianum

水飞蓟

Sunflower Family

向日葵家族

Appearance: From a distance, milk thistle looks very much like any other thistle: deeply lobed, often spiny leaves;

stout, often spiny stems; and large, up to 2 inches wide, white to purple disk flowers, each resembling a miniature

artichoke (another thistle). Closer inspection of milk thistle reveals a weblike pattern on the surfaces of the leaves, a

characteristic that sets it apart from its many cousins. Milk thistle may grow to 7 feet tall.

外观：从远处看，奶蓟草看起来非常像任何其他蓟：叶子深裂，通常有刺；茎粗壮，通常有刺；还有大

的、宽达 2 英寸、白色到紫色的圆盘花，每朵都像微型朝鲜蓟（另一种蓟）。仔细观察水飞蓟，会发现叶

子表面有网状图案，这一特征使其与许多近亲区别开来。水飞蓟可以长到 7 英尺高。

Habitat and Range: A native of the Mediterranean region of Europe, milk thistle has become naturalized in many

portions of North America. In many areas it has earned the reputation of being an invasive weed. Milk thistle is

cultivated throughout much of the world for its medicinal seeds.

栖息地和分布范围：水飞蓟原产于欧洲地中海地区，现已在北美许多地区归化。在许多地区，它已赢得了

入侵杂草的声誉。水飞蓟因其种子药用而在世界大部分地区种植。

Cycle and Bloom Season: An annual or biennial that blooms June through July

周期和开花季节：一年生或两年生植物，六月至七月开花

Parts Used: Ripe seeds

使用部分：成熟种子

Primary Medicinal Activities: Protects and strengthens the liver

主要药用活性：保护和增强肝脏

Strongest Affinities: Liver

最强的亲和力：肝脏

Preparation: Alcohol tincture or a standardized powder extract (usually contained in gel capsules). A high

concentration of alcohol is required to extract the active constituents from the ground seeds. Be skeptical of milk

thistle tincture products whose labels claim low or no alcohol.

制剂：酒精酊剂或标准化粉末提取物（通常包含在凝胶胶囊中）。从磨碎的种子中提取活性成分需要高浓

度的酒精。对标签上声称酒精含量低或不含酒精的水飞蓟酊剂产品持怀疑态度。

=== PAGE 250 ===
Common Uses: Milk thistle has a long ethno-botanical history that gives it stature as much more than a liver herb. It

has been used to treat everything from cancer to poor milk production in nursing mothers, but it is most effective in

protecting and regenerating the liver.

常见用途：奶蓟草具有悠久的民族植物学历史，使其地位比肝脏药草还要重要。它已被用于治疗从癌症到

哺乳期母亲产奶量低等各种疾病，但它在保护和再生肝脏方面最有效。

Most of milk thistle’s usefulness can be attributed to its silymarin constituent. Dozens of studies have confirmed

that silymarin and its related compounds support and protect the liver during crisis by accelerating the rate of protein

synthesis and stimulating production of new cells to replace damaged ones. These compounds work as powerful

antioxidants and strengthen liver cell resistance to toxic compounds, while at the same time stimulating cellular

reproduction. Much of what we know about these activities stems from the discovery that silymarin can be used to

antidote amanita (death cap) mushroom poisoning. When intravenous silymarin is administered within twenty-four

to forty-eight hours of ingestion, toxic compounds that would normally destroy liver cells are prevented from

penetrating the cell walls, and liver damage is greatly minimized.

水飞蓟的大部分用途可归因于其水飞蓟素成分。数十项研究已证实，水飞蓟素及其相关化合物可以通过

加快蛋白质合成速度并刺激新细胞的产生来替代受损细胞，从而在危机期间支持和保护肝脏。这些化合物

作为强大的抗氧化剂，增强肝细胞对有毒化合物的抵抗力，同时刺激细胞繁殖。我们对这些活动的了解大

部分源于水飞蓟素可用于解毒鹅膏菌中毒的发现。当在摄入后二十四至四十八小时内静脉注射水飞蓟素

时，通常会破坏肝细胞的有毒化合物会被阻止渗透细胞壁，从而大大减少肝脏损伤。

Scientific research has also confirmed that milk thistle protects the liver from the harmful effects of various other

toxins. Specifically, milk thistle protects an animal’s liver during a toxicity-related crisis (such as exposure to toxic

chemicals or potentially harmful drug therapies) and helps the animal through a liver damage or disease crisis. It can

be used in dogs, cats, horses, goats, ferrets, and rodents to aid in liver or kidney damage, hepatitis, jaundice,

leptospirosis, and parvovirus recovery. Milk thistle may prove helpful for treating liver tumors, cancers, and skin

problems that are secondary to liver disease. Animals who have been on allopathic drugs, heartworm medication,

dewormers, vaccinations, anticonvulsive drugs, or chemotherapy might benefit from this herb as well. Milk thistle

can also help block the potential liverdamaging effects of anesthesia and is often used both before and after surgery

in Germany. Medical and biological studies support its use in reducing the toxic effect of heavy metals if

administered soon enough.

科学研究还证实，水飞蓟可以保护肝脏免受各种其他毒素的有害影响。具体来说，奶蓟草可以在与毒性

相关的危机（例如接触有毒化学物质或潜在有害的药物治疗）期间保护动物的肝脏，并帮助动物度过肝脏

损伤或疾病危机。它可用于狗、猫、马、山羊、雪貂和啮齿动物，以帮助肝脏或肾脏损伤、肝炎、黄疸、

钩端螺旋体病和细小病毒的恢复。水飞蓟可能有助于治疗肝肿瘤、癌症和继发于肝病的皮肤问题。服用过

对抗疗法药物、心丝虫药物、驱虫剂、疫苗接种、抗惊厥药物或化疗的动物也可能从这种草药中受益。水

飞蓟还可以帮助阻止麻醉对肝脏的潜在损害，并且在德国经常在手术前和手术后使用。医学和生物学研究

支持，如果尽快施用，它可以减少重金属的毒性作用。

Despite much of the publicity that has been generated about this “wonder herb,” milk thistle should not be used as

a daily food supplement. Milk thistle is a medicine that is best reserved for situations in which the liver is already

under abnormal stress. When used in absence of preexisting stress, milk thistle probably won’t do any harm, but on

the other hand it might cause digestive disorders or it might impair other body-cleansing functions of the liver. Many

herbalists believe that it can actually slow the metabolic functions of a healthy liver. In any case, milk thistle is

unnecessary unless there is a real and present need, and its use as a dietary supplement constitutes waste.

尽管人们对这种“神奇草药”进行了大量宣传，但水飞蓟不应该用作日常食品补充剂。水飞蓟是一种最适

合肝脏已经处于异常压力下的药物。当在没有预先存在的压力的情况下使用时，水飞蓟可能不会造成任何

伤害，但另一方面，它可能会导致消化紊乱，或者可能损害肝脏的其他身体清洁功能。许多草药学家认

为，它实际上可以减缓健康肝脏的代谢功能。无论如何，除非有真正的、当前的需要，否则奶蓟是不必要

的，并且将其用作膳食补充剂构成浪费。

=== PAGE 251 ===
Silybum marianum

水飞蓟

Alcohol tinctures are the best for administering milk thistle because they allow quick and complete absorption of

silymarin into the body. But in cases in which severe liver damage might be compounded by alcohol, or in animals

with alcohol hypersensitivity, a standardized powder extract (formulated to contain 60–80 percent silymarin) might

be a better choice. In cases in which stress on the liver is suspected but not yet serious, the alcohol extract can be

administered at a starting dose of ¼ teaspoon (1 milliliter) per 20 pounds of the animal’s body weight. Before

feeding it to your animal, dilute each dose with an equal amount or more of water to make the tincture more

palatable and to minimize the astringency and burning sensation of the alcohol. The tincture can then be added to the

animal’s food. In any suspected case of liver disease, a holistic veterinarian should be consulted before proceeding

with the use of milk thistle or any other herb.

酒精酊剂是服用水飞蓟的最佳选择，因为它们可以使水飞蓟素快速而完全地吸收到体内。但如果酒精可

能导致严重的肝损伤，或者对酒精过敏的动物，标准化粉末提取物（配方中含有 60-80% 水飞蓟素）可能是

更好的选择。如果怀疑肝脏受到压力但尚未严重，可以按每 20 磅动物体重 1/4 茶匙（1 毫升）的起始剂量

施用醇提取物。在喂给动物之前，用等量或更多的水稀释每个剂量，以使酊剂更可口，并尽量减少酒精的

涩味和烧灼感。然后可以将酊剂添加到动物的食物中。对于任何疑似肝病的病例，在继续使用水飞蓟或任

何其他草药之前，应咨询整体兽医。

Availability: Available in various formulations through herb retailers

供货情况：可通过草药零售商购买各种配方

Propagation and Harvest: Milk thistle is easy to grow, but the small yield of seeds per plant makes cultivation a

pointless endeavor unless you own a farm rather than just a garden. Harvesting must be done when the seeds are

completely ripe and dry but before they leave the plant with a gust of wind. In other words, leave the task to the

people who farm it.

=== PAGE 252 ===
繁殖和收获：水飞蓟很容易种植，但每株植物的种子产量很少，除非您拥有一个农场而不仅仅是一个花

园，否则种植毫无意义。收获必须在种子完全成熟且干燥时但在它们被一阵风吹离植物之前进行。换句话

说，把任务留给耕种它的人。

Alternatives and Adjuncts: Licorice is another excellent liver-repairing herb that possesses a broader spectrum of

medicinal activities than milk thistle. For mild to moderate liver disorders that are believed to be toxicity related and

that are signified by chronic constipation, indigestion, or skin problems, milk thistle can be combined with

dandelion, burdock, yellow dock, red clover, Oregon grape, or turmeric.

替代品和辅助品：甘草是另一种优秀的肝脏修复草药，具有比水飞蓟更广泛的药用活性。对于被认为与毒

性相关且以慢性便秘、消化不良或皮肤问题为特征的轻度至中度肝脏疾病，奶蓟草可以与蒲公英、牛蒡、

黄坞、红三叶草、俄勒冈葡萄或姜黄结合使用。

Cautions and Comments: Milk thistle is a very safe herb. In studies that involve giving laboratory animals high

doses of silymarin over long periods, the animals display no toxicity.

注意事项和评论：水飞蓟是一种非常安全的草药。在涉及长期给实验动物高剂量水飞蓟素的研究中，动物

没有表现出毒性。

=== PAGE 253 ===
MULLEIN

毛蕊花

Verbascum thapsus

毛蕊花

Figwort Family

玄参家族

Appearance: This conspicuous plant is recognized during its first year of growth as a ground-hugging rosette of

large, up to 12 inches long, broadly lance-shaped, profusely fuzzy leaves. During its second and final year of

growth, mullein heads skyward with a stout central stalk that may exceed 6 feet in height. Numerous yellow flowers

are then presented in a coblike cluster. There are several species of mullein to be found in North America.

Verbascum thapsus is the most common and widespread.

外观：这种引人注目的植物在生长的第一年被认为是一种紧贴地面的莲座丛，叶子长达 12 英寸，呈宽矛

状，叶子浓密。在生长的第二年也是最后一年，毛蕊花会长出粗壮的中央茎，高度可能超过 6 英尺。然

后，许多黄色的花朵呈鹅卵石状的簇状出现。北美发现了多种毛蕊花。毛蕊花是最常见和分布最广的。

Habitat and Range: Mullein is a Eurasian import that has made itself at home in any variety of disturbed sites

throughout North America. It is common to clear-cuts, burned areas, and partially developed lands in the West,

where it often serves as an important earth regenerator, helping to regain biological balances and prevent erosion.

栖息地和分布范围：毛蕊花是欧亚大陆进口的植物，它在北美各地各种受干扰的地方都安家落户。它在西

方的砍伐区、烧毁区和部分开发的土地中很常见，它通常充当重要的地球再生器，帮助恢复生物平衡并防

止侵蚀。

Cycle and Bloom Season: A biennial that blooms throughout the summer

周期和开花季节：两年一次，整个夏季开花

Parts Used: Leaves, flower heads, roots (each part represents different medicines)

使用部位：叶、花头、根（每个部位代表不同的药物）

Primary Medicinal Activities: Expectorant; antimicrobial; antiviral; cough suppressant; lubricates, soothes, and

protects mucous membranes; astringent

主要药用活性：祛痰；抗菌；抗病毒物质;止咳;润滑、舒缓和保护粘膜；涩

Strongest Affinities: Respiratory and urinary tracts, skin, and ears

最强的亲和力：呼吸道和泌尿道、皮肤和耳朵

Preparation: Tea, tincture, oil infusion, compress, poultice

准备：茶、酊剂、油浸剂、敷布、膏药

=== PAGE 254 ===
Common Uses: This wayside weed is extremely useful, providing safe and effective medicine for a wide variety of

ailments. The leaves are well known for their ability to ease spasmodic coughs while reducing inflammation and

increasing mucus production in the bronchi, making coughs more productive and allowing sufferers to rest easier.

These qualities combine with antimicrobial and antiviral properties, making mullein an herb of choice in the

treatment of canine tracheobronchitis (kennel cough) and various other forms of respiratory distress in animals.

常见用途：这种路边杂草非常有用，可以为多种疾病提供安全有效的药物。众所周知，这些叶子能够缓解

痉挛性咳嗽，同时减少炎症并增加支气管中粘液的产生，使咳嗽更有效率，让患者更容易休息。这些品质

与抗菌和抗病毒特性相结合，使毛蕊花成为治疗犬气管支气管炎（犬窝咳）和各种其他形式的动物呼吸窘

迫的首选草药。

Scientific studies have shown that a synergy of compounds contained in mullein leaf actively inhibits

reproduction of herpes simplex virus (HSV). This activity, combined with the antitussive and expectorant qualities

of the plant, might prove useful in treating canine herpes virus (CHV) and feline viral rhinotracheitis (FVR).

Although more study is needed to ascertain the effectiveness of mullein against HSV infections in animals, the

safety of this plant and its demonstrated ability to relieve many of the discomforts of these diseases justifies giving it

a try. A strong leaf tea can be used (10 milliliters per 30 pounds of a dog’s body weight, twice daily; 5 milliliters

twice daily for cats), or a glycerin tincture can be given directly into the mouth (1–2 milliliters per 20 pounds of an

animal’s weight, twice daily). Mullein leaf is also practical in the treatment of asthma, especially when it is

combined with elecampane, grindelia, or lobelia. (Please see the Lobelia section in the “Supplemental Herb List” for

cautions about this herb.)

科学研究表明，毛蕊花叶中所含化合物的协同作用可有效抑制单纯疱疹病毒 (HSV) 的繁殖。这种活性与

植物的镇咳和祛痰特性相结合，可能有助于治疗犬疱疹病毒（CHV）和猫病毒性鼻气管炎（FVR）。虽然

还需要更多的研究来确定毛蕊花对抗动物 HSV 感染的有效性，但这种植物的安全性及其缓解这些疾病的许

多不适的能力值得一试。可以使用浓叶茶（每 30 磅狗体重 10 毫升，每天两次；猫每天 5 毫升），或者可

以直接将甘油酊剂放入口中（每 20 磅体重 1-2 毫升）。动物的体重，每天两次）。毛蕊花也可用于治疗哮

喘，特别是与土木香、银杏或半边莲合用时。 （有关半边莲的注意事项，请参阅“补充草药清单”中的半边

莲部分。）

The large leaves of mullein also make an excellent antimicrobial and astringent poultice for minor wounds and

insect bites. Just mash up a few fresh or dried leaves with some water and apply the poultice directly to the affected

area. Mullein leaf is said to lower the acidity of urine, as well, making the herb useful in the treatment of various

urinary disorders where urine pH levels are too low.

毛蕊花的大叶子也是一种极好的抗菌和收敛膏剂，用于治疗小伤口和昆虫叮咬。只需将一些新鲜或干燥

的叶子与一些水捣碎，然后将药膏直接涂在患处即可。据说毛蕊花还能降低尿液的酸度，使这种草药可用

于治疗尿液 pH 值过低的各种泌尿系统疾病。

=== PAGE 255 ===
Verbascum thapsus

毛蕊花

The flowering tops of mullein have antimicrobial properties with a special affinity toward infections of the ears,

including those caused by ear mites. (Note: Ear problems are a sign of chronic disease in an animal who is on a

commercial diet.) The best way to use the flowers is in the form of an oil infusion. The flowers also contain rotenone

and a synergy of other insecticidal compounds, making mullein effective in the fight against fleas and mange.

毛蕊花的花顶具有抗菌特性，对耳朵感染（包括耳螨引起的感染）有特殊的亲和力。 （注意：耳朵问题

是接受商业饮食的动物患有慢性疾病的征兆。）使用这些花的最佳方法是以油浸剂的形式。这些花还含有

鱼藤酮和其他杀虫化合物的协同作用，使毛蕊花能够有效对抗跳蚤和疥癣。

Some herbalists maintain that a tincture of the root can be used to treat urinary incontinence. Urinary incontinence

can be due to estrogen or testosterone deficiencies, neurogenic dysfunction, anatomical abnormalities, or paradoxical

obstruction from urethral calculi or neoplasia, so contact your holistic vet to find the cause before proceeding with

the use of mullein root.

一些草药医生坚持认为根酊剂可以用来治疗尿失禁。尿失禁可能是由于雌激素或睾酮缺乏、神经源性功

能障碍、解剖异常或尿道结石或肿瘤引起的反常阻塞所致，因此在继续使用毛蕊花根之前，请联系您的整

体兽医找出原因。

Availability: An abundant weed in much of North America. The seeds are available through specialty seed catalogs.

可用性：北美大部分地区盛产杂草。这些种子可通过专业种子目录获得。

Propagation and Harvest: The leaves of mullein can be harvested anytime, provided they look healthy. The

flowers do not appear until the plants’ second year and should be plucked from the flower heads when they are wide

open (we prefer to use them fresh). The first-year roots should be dug in fall, whereas the second-year roots should

be dug in the spring, before the biennial plant begins to die.

=== PAGE 256 ===
繁殖和收获：毛蕊花的叶子可以随时收获，只要它们看起来健康即可。花朵要到植物第二年才会出现，应

该在花开时从花头中摘下（我们更喜欢新鲜使用）。第一年的根应该在秋天挖，而第二年的根应该在春天

挖，在二年生植物开始死亡之前。

Alternatives and Adjuncts: For kennel cough and other respiratory problems, mullein leaf combines well with

elecampane, grindelia, or horehound. For use in the ears, nothing compares to a combination of garlic and mullein

flower oil. Saint-John’s-wort oil and vitamin are also great adjuncts here. Other herbs to consider for urinary

incontinence (alone or as adjuncts) include corn silk, uva ursi, couch grass, Saint-John’s-wort, and horsetail.

替代品和辅助剂：对于犬舍咳嗽和其他呼吸道疾病，毛蕊花叶与土木香、苦海草或苦海草可以很好地结合

使用。对于耳朵来说，没有什么比大蒜和毛蕊花油的组合更好的了。圣约翰草油和维生素也是很好的辅助

剂。其他可考虑治疗尿失禁的草药（单独或作为辅助品）包括玉米须、熊果、茅草、圣约翰草和马尾草。

Cautions and Comments: Keep mullein away from fish and amphibians. The rotenone contained in mullein is

toxic to aquatic life.

注意事项和评论：让毛蕊花远离鱼类和两栖动物。毛蕊花中含有的鱼藤酮对水生生物有毒。

=== PAGE 257 ===
NETTLE

荨麻

Urtica dioica

荨麻

Nettle Family

荨麻家族

Appearance: Stinging nettle is an erect plant that may grow as high as 7 feet where conditions permit. It reproduces

largely from its shallow horizontally creeping root system and is often found in dense patches. Its leaves are broadly

lance-shaped with coarsely toothed margins. Flowers are presented in inconspicuous drooping clusters. Stems are

covered with fine stinging hairs. Young plants often emerge a reddish color, later turning green as they mature.

外观：荨麻是一种直立植物，在条件允许的情况下可以长到 7 英尺高。它主要通过其浅水平匍匐根系繁

殖，并且经常出现在密集的斑块中。它的叶子呈宽矛状，边缘有粗齿。花朵呈不显眼的下垂簇状。茎上覆

盖着细小的刺毛。幼苗通常呈淡红色，随后成熟时变成绿色。

Habitat and Range: Several species of nettle inhabit drainage ditches, stream banks, and other moist soils

throughout North America and much of the Northern Hemisphere.

栖息地和分布范围：几种荨麻栖息在北美和北半球大部分地区的排水沟、河岸和其他潮湿土壤中。

Cycle and Bloom Season: A perennial, annual, or biennial (depending on species and climate) that blooms in early

summer

周期和开花季节：多年生、一年生或二年生植物（取决于物种和气候），在初夏开花

Parts Used: Leaves and stems of the preflowering plant and, to a lesser extent, the root

使用部分：开花前植物的叶和茎，以及较小程度的根

Primary Medicinal Activities: Nutritive, antihistamine, astringent, tonic, helps with blood cleansing

主要药用活性：营养、抗组胺、收敛、滋补、帮助血液净化

Strongest Affinities: Genitourinary tract, blood, skin, and eyes

最强的亲和力：泌尿生殖道、血液、皮肤和眼睛

Preparation: Dried herb (directly fed), tea, poultice, tincture

准备：干药草（直接喂食）、茶、膏剂、酊剂

Common Uses: All species of Urtica cause an instantaneous contact dermatitis that is characterized by tiny blisters

and a burning sting. Fortunately, nettle’s unpleasant, self-initiated introduction is usually short lived, and those who

can learn to accept nettle’s characteristics are bound to realize the precious gifts this somewhat obnoxious plant has

to offer. Despite its downside, we recognize this plant as one of nature’s best nutraceuticals. Ironically, nettle is

=== PAGE 258 ===
actually quite delicious, nutritious, and rich with healing opportunities.

常见用途：所有种类的荨麻疹都会引起瞬时接触性皮炎，其特征是小水泡和灼痛的刺痛。幸运的是，荨麻

这种令人不快的、自发的介绍通常是短暂的，那些能够学会接受荨麻特性的人一定会意识到这种有点令人

讨厌的植物所提供的宝贵礼物。尽管有其缺点，但我们认为这种植物是自然界最好的营养保健品之一。具

有讽刺意味的是，荨麻实际上非常美味、营养丰富，而且富含治疗功效。

Although gloves and a long-sleeved shirt must be worn when gathering the greens, complete drying or cooking

neutralizes the plant’s antigenic proteins and formic acid compounds—the constituents responsible for the plant’s

sting. These compounds break down quickly when exposed to air or heat, and when correctly prepared, the leafy

greens of young nettle plants are delicious and contain a vast array of vitamins, minerals, and nutrients. In fact, 100

grams of dried preflowering nettle plant contains up to 30.4 grams (30 percent by weight) of crude protein, 2,970

milligrams of calcium, 680 milligrams of phosphorus, 32.2 milligrams of iron, 650 milligrams of magnesium, 20.2

milligrams of beta-carotene, and 3,450 milligrams of potassium, along with vitamins A, C, D, and B complex—all

in a highly palatable form that can be effectively assimilated into the body without adding excess stress upon the

liver, kidneys, or digestive tract. Nettle therefore makes an excellent addition to food for animals who need extra

trace minerals and vitamins in their diet but not necessarily in huge, multivitamin doses. This applies to animals who

are already on a natural diet or those who are sensitive to excessive vitamin or mineral supplementation because of

chronic digestive disorders, existing systemic toxicity, or urinary tract problems. The completely dried herb can be

sprinkled directly onto the animals’ food—½ teaspoon for each pound of food fed to dogs, or ⅓ teaspoon per meal

for cats. Herbivores can be fed the dried greens in their usual diet, and many will relish nettle as a special treat. In

Sweden and Russia, where the problem of producing nutrient-rich feeds is compounded by a short growing season,

winter-hardy nettles are sometimes cultivated as fodder crops and then dried.

虽然采摘蔬菜时必须戴手套和穿长袖衬衫，但完全干燥或烹饪可以中和植物的抗原蛋白和甲酸化合物

——这些成分是导致植物刺痛的成分。这些化合物在暴露于空气或热量时会迅速分解，如果处理得当，荨

麻幼苗的绿叶蔬菜非常美味，并且含有大量维生素、矿物质和营养物质。事实上，100克干燥的开花前荨麻

植物含有高达30.4克（按重量计30%）的粗蛋白、2,970毫克钙、680毫克磷、32.2毫克铁、650毫克镁、20.2

毫克β-胡萝卜素、3,450 毫克钾，以及维生素 A、C、D 和 B 复合物，所有这些都以非常适口的形式存在，

可以有效地吸收到体内，而不会给肝脏、肾脏或消化道增加过多的压力。因此，对于那些在饮食中需要额

外微量矿物质和维生素但不一定需要大量多种维生素的动物来说，荨麻是一种极好的食物补充。这适用于

已经采用自然饮食的动物，或由于慢性消化系统疾病、现有的全身毒性或尿路问题而对过量维生素或矿物

质补充敏感的动物。完全干燥的药草可以直接撒在动物的食物上——给狗喂每磅食物 1/2 茶匙，或者给猫每

餐 1/3 茶匙。草食动物可以在平常的饮食中喂食干蔬菜，许多人会把荨麻作为一种特殊的享受。在瑞典和俄

罗斯，生产营养丰富的饲料的问题因生长季节短而变得更加复杂，耐寒的荨麻有时被种植为饲料作物，然

后进行干燥。

For finicky pets who despise anything but what their humans are eating, try cooking the fresh young plants with

enough water to cover them until they are soft and tender. The cooked greens are excellent with butter, and after

your furry friend has watched you relish them for a while, you can stir some into her food.

对于挑剔的宠物来说，除了人类吃的东西之外，什么都看不起，可以尝试用足够的水来煮新鲜的幼苗，

以覆盖它们，直到它们变软。煮熟的蔬菜搭配黄油非常美味，当你毛茸茸的朋友看着你品尝它们一段时间

后，你可以在她的食物中搅拌一些。

=== PAGE 259 ===
Urtica dioica

荨麻

Although many herbal preparations for the eyes typically use a plant called eyebright (Euphrasia sp.) as a primary

anti-inflammatory agent, many herbalists are becoming concerned about the increasing scarcity of this wild-

harvested herb. Fortunately, nature always provides us with a diversity of herbal options—all that is required is for

us to ignore market sensationalism and embrace the use of our less compromised plant allies. Nettle, a much more

abundant plant, is a good alternative to eyebright.

尽管许多眼用草药制剂通常使用一种名为小米草（Euphrasia sp.）的植物作为主要抗炎剂，但许多草药学

家开始担心这种野生采摘草药的日益稀缺。幸运的是，大自然总是为我们提供多种草药选择——我们所需

要的只是忽视市场的轰动效应，拥抱使用我们不那么妥协的植物盟友。荨麻是一种更为丰富的植物，是小

米草的良好替代品。

Nettle leaf tea is an excellent skin and coat rinse that nourishes animals’ fur and provides symptomatic relief for

itchy skin and fleabites.

荨麻叶茶是一种极好的皮肤和皮毛冲洗剂，可以滋养动物的皮毛，并缓解皮肤瘙痒和跳蚤症状。

Many herbalists who suffer from seasonal allergies have found that nettle leaf tincture or tea helps lessen their

symptoms if taken on a regular basis. In a recent study involving sixty-nine patients who suffer from allergic

rhinitis, 58 percent found relief after taking a freeze-dried preparation of the leaf.

许多患有季节性过敏的草药医生发现，定期服用荨麻叶酊剂或茶有助于减轻症状。在最近一项涉及 69 名

过敏性鼻炎患者的研究中，58% 的患者在服用了叶子的冻干制剂后症状得到缓解。

Although the theories behind the medicinal actions of nettle are varied, we believe that part of the basis for

nettle’s antiallergenic usefulness may lie in the plant’s histamine content, which may work in a like-versus-like

manner similar to the concepts of homeopathy. What we mean is that by introducing a substance into the body that

acts mildly as an allergenic antagonist, the body is triggered into protecting itself from what it believes to be an

inevitable, allout attack of allergens. In short, nettle may prompt the body into preparing itself. For animals with

predictable seasonal occurrences of allergies, dietary supplementation with dried nettle leaf may help.

=== PAGE 260 ===
尽管荨麻的药用作用背后的理论各不相同，但我们相信荨麻的抗过敏作用的部分基础可能在于植物的组

胺含量，其作用可能类似于顺势疗法的概念。我们的意思是，通过将一种具有温和作用的过敏原拮抗剂的

物质引入体内，身体就会被触发来保护自己免受它认为不可避免的过敏原的全面攻击。简而言之，荨麻可

能会促使身体做好准备。对于可预测季节性过敏的动物，添加干荨麻叶的膳食补充剂可能会有所帮助。

Nettle root may be useful in the treatment of prostate enlargement, especially at early onset of the disorder.

Although a swollen prostate is not as common in animals as in humans, this disorder is sometimes secondary to a

chronic or acute infection, poor diet, inflammatory disease, or injuries of the urinary tract, especially in older

animals. In a study conducted on human subjects who had mild cases or early onset of prostatic adenoma (a

degenerative enlargement of the glandular part of the prostate that typically results in frequent urination during the

night), the fluid extract (tincture) of nettle root was found to reduce the duration and volume of urine retention and

thus the need to urinate throughout the night. The active constituent in this case is believed to be Beta-sitosterol, a

phytosterol known to possess mild anti-inflammatory activity. Although this action is not likely to reduce the

formation of scar tissue within the urinary tract and prostate, it is believed to relieve symptoms through reduction of

swelling in surrounding tissues. Given the safety of this herb and the functional similarities between the prostates of

animals and humans, nettle is certainly worth a try. Keep in mind that large doses of nettle can be irritating to the

kidneys if given over an extended period of time, particularly if an animal has preexisting kidney disease or if the

herb was gathered too late in its growth cycle.

荨麻根可能有助于治疗前列腺肥大，尤其是在疾病早期。虽然前列腺肿胀在动物中并不像在人类中那么

常见，但这种疾病有时继发于慢性或急性感染、不良饮食、炎症性疾病或尿路损伤，特别是在老年动物

中。在一项针对患有轻度前列腺腺瘤或早期发病的前列腺腺瘤（前列腺腺体部分的退行性增大，通常导致

夜间尿频）的人类受试者中进行的一项研究中，发现了荨麻根的液体提取物（酊剂）减少尿潴留的持续时

间和体积，从而减少整夜排尿的需要。这种情况下的活性成分被认为是β-谷甾醇，一种已知具有轻度抗炎

活性的植物甾醇。尽管这种作用不太可能减少尿道和前列腺内疤痕组织的形成，但据信它可以通过减少周

围组织的肿胀来缓解症状。考虑到这种草药的安全性以及动物和人类前列腺功能的相似性，荨麻当然值得

一试。请记住，如果长时间服用大剂量的荨麻可能会刺激肾脏，特别是如果动物已患有肾脏疾病或在其生

长周期中采集得太晚。

Availability: Available wherever bulk herbs are sold

供货情况： 凡是出售散装草药的地方均可买到

Propagation and Harvest: Nettle can be transplanted from root cuttings, but the plant tends to be somewhat choosy

about where it grows. Although we know exactly where the plant should thrive, our efforts to introduce nettle to

such an area have met with a less than 50 percent success rate. In other words, you are probably better off finding a

healthy patch of wild plants to collect your herb. Gather the plants before they bloom—the younger the better.

Mature plants begin to develop cystoliths, tiny crystalline particles in the leaf tissues that can irritate the urinary tract

and kidneys when ingested in large enough quantities. After gathering, you can boil the greens and serve them as

you would spinach, or you can spread them onto clean newspapers and allow them to dry in a well-ventilated,

sunlight-free location until they are crispy.

繁殖和收获：荨麻可以从根部插条移植，但该植物往往对生长地点有些挑剔。尽管我们确切地知道该植物

应该在哪里生长，但我们将荨麻引入该地区的努力的成功率还不到 50%。换句话说，您最好找到一片健康

的野生植物来采集药草。在植物开花之前收集它们——越年轻越好。成熟的植物开始在叶组织中形成乳

石，这是一种微小的结晶颗粒，当摄入足够多时，会刺激尿道和肾脏。收集后，您可以将蔬菜煮沸并像菠

菜一样食用，也可以将它们铺在干净的报纸上，然后在通风良好、无阳光的地方晾干，直至变脆。

For obvious reasons, gloves and a long-sleeved shirt should be worn when handling nettle plants. If a leaf or stem

manages to sneak under your shirtsleeve, try this trick: grasp a piece of the stem and squeeze some of the nettle juice

onto the affected area. The stem juice is rich in lecithin, which is believed to antidote the sting. We manage to get

stung by this plant several times each spring, and we find relief by using this method in many of our adverse

encounters.

出于显而易见的原因，处理荨麻植物时应戴手套和长袖衬衫。如果叶子或茎设法潜入你的衬衫袖子下，

请尝试这个技巧：抓住一片茎，将一些荨麻汁挤到受影响的区域。茎汁富含卵磷脂，据信可以解毒蜇伤。

=== PAGE 261 ===
每年春天，我们都会被这种植物蜇了好几次，在许多不利的遭遇中，我们都通过使用这种方法得到了缓

解。

Alternatives and Adjuncts: For anti-inflammatory eye and skin washes, alternatives include raspberry leaf,

chamomile, dandelion, calendula, or oxeye daisy. For conjunctivitis that is secondary to bacterial or fungal infection,

nettle combines well with Oregon grape. Nutritive adjuncts include spirulina, flaxseed, red clover, and alfalfa. For

allergies, nettle combines well with elecampane, coltsfoot, goldenrod, lobelia, or licorice as lesser adjuncts. For

urinary incontinence and inflammations of the urinary tract, consider couch grass, corn silk, cleavers, uva ursi,

goldenrod, and marshmallow as adjuncts.

替代品和辅助剂：对于抗炎眼睛和皮肤清洗剂，替代品包括覆盆子叶、洋甘菊、蒲公英、金盏花或牛眼

菊。对于继发于细菌或真菌感染的结膜炎，荨麻与俄勒冈葡萄完美结合。营养辅助剂包括螺旋藻、亚麻

籽、红三叶草和苜蓿。对于过敏，荨麻可以与土木香、款冬、黄花、半边莲或甘草搭配使用，作为较小的

辅料。对于尿失禁和尿路炎症，可以考虑使用茅草、玉米须、菜刀、熊果、黄花和棉花糖作为辅助剂。

Cautions and Comments: Touching the live plant results in a painful, blistering sting. Thorough drying or cooking

neutralizes the toxic constituents. Some herbalists believe that this plant should be used before it flowers—mature

plants contain gritty particles that can irritate the kidneys. Animals who are predisposed to plant allergies may be

sensitive to nettle—proceed with care.

注意事项和评论：触摸活植物会导致疼痛、起泡。彻底干燥或烹饪可以中和有毒成分。一些草药医生认

为，这种植物应该在开花前使用——成熟的植物含有会刺激肾脏的砂砾颗粒。容易对植物过敏的动物可能

对荨麻敏感——谨慎行事。

=== PAGE 262 ===
OAT

Avena sativa

燕麦

Grass Family

草家族

Appearance: Oats look very much like any other tall grass, and positive identification can be difficult if you’re not

familiar with the fine details specific to the various cultivars of the Avena genus. Wild oat (A. fatua), a common and

often hated weed, has the same medicinal attributes as its cultivated relatives. The leaves of the seedlings and seeds

of this 1- to 4-foot-tall plant have two unique features that differentiate it from its cultivated cousins and most other

wild grasses. The first feature is the leaves. Early in growth, they have a counterclockwise twist in them; as the plant

matures, the leaves progressively straighten out. The second unique characteristic is the plant’s seeds, which at

maturity are presented in loosely arranged drooping spikelets. Each spikelet contains two or three foxtail-like seeds

that have proportionately long hairlike awns, each of which has a right angle kink in it, giving the appearance of a

crimped cockroach feeler.

外观：燕麦看起来非常像任何其他高草，如果您不熟悉燕麦属各种品种的具体细节，则可能很难正确识

别。野燕麦 (A. fatua) 是一种常见且经常令人讨厌的杂草，与栽培的近亲具有相同的药用特性。这种 1 至 4

英尺高的植物的幼苗叶子和种子有两个独特的特征，使其有别于其栽培近亲和大多数其他野生草本植物。

第一个特征是叶子。在生长早期，它们有逆时针扭曲；随着植物的成熟，叶子逐渐伸直。第二个独特特征

是植物的种子，成熟时呈松散排列的下垂小穗。每个小穗包含两到三个狐尾状种子，这些种子具有相应的

长毛状芒，每个种子都有直角扭结，看起来像卷曲的蟑螂触角。

=== PAGE 263 ===
Avena sativa

燕麦

Habitat and Range: Several cultivars of A. sativa are commercially grown throughout the world. Wild oat (A.

fatua) is a native of Europe that has been introduced into meadows, pastures, and waste areas throughout much of

North America.

栖息地和分布范围： 苜蓿的几个品种在世界各地进行商业种植。野燕麦（A. fatua）原产于欧洲，已被引入

北美大部分地区的草地、牧场和荒地。

Cycle and Bloom Season: An annual that blooms from June to August. The seeds of wild oat can remain dormant

in the soil for more than eight years, making it difficult to eradicate from areas where it isn’t wanted.

周期和开花季节：一年生植物，从六月到八月开花。野燕麦的种子可以在土壤中休眠八年以上，因此很难

从不需要的地方根除。

Parts Used: Post-flowering tops are used before the seeds fully mature. This is called the plant’s milk stage.

Herbalists refer to these parts as oatstraw.

使用的部分：开花后的顶部在种子完全成熟之前使用。这称为植物的乳汁阶段。草药学家将这些部分称为

燕麦秆。

Primary Medicinal Activities: Improves nerve functions, nutritive, anti-inflammatory

主要药用活性：改善神经功能、营养、抗炎

Strongest Affinities: Nervous system

最强的亲和力：神经系统

Preparation: Tea, tincture, fresh or dried herb

制剂：茶、酊剂、新鲜或干草药

Common Uses: Oatstraw is perhaps the best nervous system tonic for aging or debilitated animals. Not only does

the herb contain considerable amounts of protein (gluten), vitamins, and minerals (especially calcium, manganese,

iron, copper, and zinc) that are essential to the maintenance of health, but it contains various alkaloid, sterol, and

flavonoid constituents that act together to safely optimize nervous system functions while stabilizing the highs and

lows between nervousness and mental lethargy. For instance, when fed in moderation to animals with chronic

nervousness, oatstraw tends to have a calming effect, but when fed to debilitated animals, it tends to stimulate the

nervous system. Oatstraw tea or tincture is an excellent choice for animals recovering from exhaustion or suffering

from depression disorders. It is known to improve nerve transmission and can be useful for problems such as

epilepsy, tremors, paralysis, and twitching. It is a good tonic for nourishing the body and strengthening nerve

function following periods of sedation or anesthesia.

常见用途：燕麦草可能是衰老或虚弱动物最好的神经系统补品。这种草药不仅含有大量维持健康所必需的

蛋白质（麸质）、维生素和矿物质（特别是钙、锰、铁、铜和锌），而且还含有各种生物碱、甾醇和类黄

酮这些成分共同作用，安全地优化神经系统功能，同时稳定紧张和精神昏睡之间的高低。例如，当适量喂

食患有慢性紧张的动物时，燕麦草往往具有镇静作用，但当喂给虚弱的动物时，它往往会刺激神经系统。

燕麦草茶或燕麦酊剂对于从疲惫中恢复或患有抑郁症的动物来说是一个绝佳的选择。众所周知，它可以改

善神经传递，可用于治疗癫痫、震颤、瘫痪和抽搐等问题。它是镇静或麻醉后滋养身体和增强神经功能的

良好滋补品。

Dried oatstraw brews into a delicious tea that can be poured directly onto dog or cat food as a quickly assimilated

tonic supplement. Infuse a heaping teaspoon of oatstraw in 8 ounces of hot water. Feeding 1 ounce of the cooled tea

=== PAGE 264 ===
daily is a good amount for cats and animals of similar size. Give 2–4 ounces to most dogs. Glycerin tinctures are

also good and can be added to your companion’s diet at a daily rate of ½–½ teaspoon (1–2 milliliters) per 20 pounds

of the animal’s body weight. Oatstraw is highly water soluble, so there is no point in using an alcohol-based tincture

if nonalcohol alternatives are available.

干燕麦草冲泡成美味的茶，可以直接倒在狗或猫的食物上，作为快速吸收的补品。将一茶匙燕麦草倒入 8

盎司热水中。对于猫和体型相似的动物来说，每天喂食 1 盎司冷茶就足够了。给大多数狗喂 2-4 盎司。甘

油酊剂也不错，可以添加到您同伴的饮食中，每日每 20 磅动物体重 ½–½ 茶匙（1–2 毫升）。燕麦草具有高

度水溶性，因此如果有非酒精替代品，则使用酒精酊剂是没有意义的。

Of course, oats are a well-known feed for horses and other herbivores and should be included as part of their daily

diet. In terms of tonic value, fresh oat greens are vastly superior to what is purchased in grain bags, but the greens

must be fed in moderation. A few large handfuls can be added to the daily diet, but too much may cause

hyperexcitability.

当然，燕麦是马和其他食草动物众所周知的饲料，应作为其日常饮食的一部分。就滋补价值而言，新鲜

燕麦绿叶菜比购买的粮袋要好得多，但必须适量喂食。可以在日常饮食中添加几大把，但过多可能会导致

过度兴奋。

Oatmeal can be included as part of your companion’s natural diet. It can also be used externally as a soothing bath

for skin problems.

燕麦片可以作为您伴侣自然饮食的一部分。它也可以作为外部沐浴来舒缓皮肤问题。

Availability: Oatstraw is available through health food stores

可获得性：燕麦秸秆可在保健食品商店购买

Propagation and Harvest: Oat is easy to grow, but it takes up a great deal of garden space. If you opt to grow it,

harvest the top 6–12 inches of the plants after the seeds have formed but before the plants begin to dry.

繁殖和收获：燕麦很容易种植，但它占用大量花园空间。如果您选择种植它，请在种子形成后但在植物开

始干燥之前收获植物顶部 6-12 英寸的部分。

Alternatives and Adjuncts: For depression disorders, oatstraw can be combined with Saint-John’s-wort,

passionflower, or chamomile (but consider changing you companion’s diet first). For treating epilepsy, oatstraw

combines with skullcap, valerian, or kava kava. In animals who are recovering from anesthesia or sedation,

alterative and diuretic herbs should be combined with oatstraw in order to help cleanse and nourish the blood and

eliminate systemic waste. Possibilities include red clover, dandelion leaf, alfalfa, garlic, and nettle. For older animals

who need continuous nervous system support, oatstraw combines especially well with nettle, red clover, alfalfa, and

spirulina.

替代品和辅助剂：对于抑郁症，燕麦草可以与圣约翰草、西番莲或洋甘菊结合使用（但首先考虑改变你同

伴的饮食）。为了治疗癫痫，燕麦草与黄芩、缬草或卡瓦卡瓦结合使用。在从麻醉或镇静中恢复的动物

中，替代和利尿草药应与燕麦草结合使用，以帮助清洁和滋养血液并消除全身废物。可能的植物包括红三

叶草、蒲公英叶、苜蓿、大蒜和荨麻。对于需要持续神经系统支持的老年动物，燕麦草与荨麻、红三叶

草、苜蓿和螺旋藻的结合特别好。

Cautions and Comments: Too much oatstraw may cause excitability or vomiting. If this occurs, simply reduce the

amount being fed to the animal.

注意事项和评论：过多的燕麦草可能会导致兴奋或呕吐。如果发生这种情况，只需减少喂给动物的量即

可。

=== PAGE 265 ===
OREGON GRAPE

俄勒冈葡萄

Mahonia aquifolium

十大功劳

Barberry Family

小檗家族

Appearance: At first glance, Oregon grape looks similar to American holly (Ilex opaca)—the stuff we deck the

halls with during the Christmas season. The almost plasticlike leaves of this perennial evergreen plant are divided

into several opposing pairs of oval to lance-shaped, ½- to 3-inch-long leaflets. The leaf edges have conspicuous

sharp spines. Flowers are yellow and are borne in clusters at the end of a sturdy central stalk. By midsummer, the

flowers develop into clusters of juicy, purple, ¼-to ½-inch fruits that resemble tiny grapes. The fruits are edible but

very sour.

外观：乍一看，俄勒冈葡萄看起来与美国冬青（Ilex opaca）相似——我们在圣诞节期间装饰大厅的东西。

这种多年生常绿植物几乎像塑料一样的叶子被分成几对相对的椭圆形到矛形、1/2 到 3 英寸长的小叶。叶缘

有明显的尖刺。花朵呈黄色，簇生于粗壮的中央茎的末端。到了仲夏，花朵会长成一簇簇多汁、紫色、1/4

至 1/2 英寸的水果，类似于小葡萄。水果可以吃，但是很酸。

Habitat and Range: Three species of Oregon grape are common in the coniferous forests of western North

America, ranging through the mountains of central California and New Mexico northward into Canada. Tall Oregon

grape (Mahonia aquifolium) is a variety that grows up to 6 feet tall and is abundant in the coastal forests to the west

slopes of the Rocky Mountains. Mahonia repens and M. nervosa are smaller (up to 12 inches tall), ground-hugging

versions that are widespread throughout their range. A fourth less-common species (M. pinnata) inhabits the

mountains of Baja Mexico and California. All share similar appearances, the primary differentiating factor being

their size.

栖息地和分布范围：三种俄勒冈葡萄常见于北美西部的针叶林中，穿过加利福尼亚州中部和新墨西哥州的

山脉，向北延伸到加拿大。高大的俄勒冈葡萄（Mahonia aquifolium）是一种高度可达 6 英尺的品种，盛产

于落基山脉西坡的沿海森林中。匍匐十大功劳（Mahonia repens）和神经功劳十大功劳（M.nervosa）体型较

小（最高 12 英寸），贴地型，在其分布范围内广泛分布。第四种不太常见的物种（M. pinnata）栖息在下

墨西哥和加利福尼亚州的山区。所有这些都有相似的外观，主要的区别因素是它们的大小。

=== PAGE 266 ===
Mahonia aquifolium

十大功劳

Cycle and Bloom Season: Perennial evergreens that bloom in late spring

周期和开花季节：在晚春开花的多年生常绿植物

Parts Used: Roots

使用部位：根部

Primary Medicinal Activities: Antimicrobial, stimulates bile production, anti-inflammatory, tonic, antiparasitic

主要药用活性：抗菌、刺激胆汁产生、抗炎、滋补、抗寄生虫

Strongest Affinities: Liver and digestive system, mucous membranes

最强的亲和力：肝脏和消化系统、粘膜

Preparation: Tincture, tea, decoction, oil infusion, powdered root

制剂：酊剂、茶、汤剂、油浸剂、根粉

Common Uses: For most purposes, Oregon grape serves as an excellent alternative to goldenseal (Hydrastis

canadensis), an herb that is currently at risk of going extinct from the pressures of overharvest and loss of habitat.

Fortunately, Oregon grape remains common and abundant over a much wider range than the overharvested

goldenseal and is much easier to cultivate. So unless you have access to a cultivated source of goldenseal, please use

Oregon grape instead.

=== PAGE 267 ===
常见用途：在大多数用途中，俄勒冈葡萄是白毛茛（Hydrastis canadensis）的绝佳替代品，白毛茛是一种草

本植物，目前由于过度采收和栖息地丧失的压力而面临灭绝的危险。幸运的是，俄勒冈葡萄仍然常见且丰

富，其范围比过度收获的金印草要广泛得多，而且更容易种植。因此，除非您可以获得金印章的栽培来

源，否则请使用俄勒冈葡萄。

As is the case for goldenseal, a bitter yellow alkaloid called berberine is primarily responsible for the strong

antimicrobial activity of Oregon grape. The antibacterial properties of berberine have been shown to be more

effective than some forms of prescription antibiotics, including chloramphenicol, when used against various forms

of staphylococci. Berberine has also been shown to be active against E. coli and other gram-negative-type bacteria.

It is even effective against giardiasis, a parasitic infestation of the digestive tract that is reputedly difficult to remedy.

Like goldenseal, Oregon grape extract is especially useful in the ears, eyes, and the mucous membranes of the

vagina and urinary tract, where it combats various fungal infections as well.

与白毛茛的情况一样，一种叫做小檗碱的苦黄色生物碱是俄勒冈葡萄具有强大抗菌活性的主要原因。当

用于对抗各种形式的葡萄球菌时，小檗碱的抗菌特性已被证明比某些形式的处方抗生素（包括氯霉素）更

有效。小檗碱还被证明对大肠杆菌和其他革兰氏阴性细菌具有活性。它甚至对贾第鞭毛虫病也有效，贾第

鞭毛虫病是一种消化道寄生虫感染，据说很难治愈。与白毛茛一样，俄勒冈葡萄提取物对耳朵、眼睛、阴

道和泌尿道粘膜特别有用，还能对抗各种真菌感染。

For bacterial ear infections or ear mites, an oil infusion of the fresh or dried root works best. To make an oil

infusion, cut up the root as finely as possible and place it into a food processor or blender that has a glass or stainless

steel blending vessel. (The roots are tough and might cause plastic to crack.) Cover the chopped root with enough

olive oil to leave a ½-inch-thick layer above the herb. Put the lid on and blend until the oil is a vibrant, goldenrod-

yellow color (about ten minutes). Strain the chopped root out through a fine sieve, and you’ll have a nice,

antimicrobial ear oil. If you don’t wish to use your blender, you can let the chopped herb and olive oil mixture stand

in a covered jar at room temperature for one month before straining. The finished product keeps for several months,

sometimes years, if refrigerated. To use the oil, apply 1–10 drops at a time in each ear one to two times a day until

the infection is gone. It is also good as a general topical antibiotic for stings, insect bites, cuts, abrasions, puncture

injuries of the paws, and other injuries.

对于细菌性耳部感染或耳螨，用新鲜或干燥的根部浸油效果最好。要制作油浸剂，请将根尽可能切碎，

然后将其放入具有玻璃或不锈钢混合容器的食品加工机或搅拌机中。 （根很硬，可能会导致塑料破裂。）

用足够的橄榄油覆盖切碎的根，在药草上方留下 0.5 英寸厚的一层。盖上盖子，搅拌直至油呈鲜艳的金黄色

（大约十分钟）。通过细筛将切碎的根过滤出来，你就会得到一种很好的抗菌耳油。如果您不想使用搅拌

机，可以将切碎的香草和橄榄油混合物放在有盖的罐子中，在室温下放置一个月，然后过滤。如果冷藏的

话，成品可以保存几个月，有时甚至几年。使用精油时，每次在每只耳朵上滴 1-10 滴，每天一到两次，直

到感染消失。它也是一种很好的通用外用抗生素，用于治疗蜇伤、昆虫叮咬、割伤、擦伤、爪子刺伤和其

他伤害。

Oregon grape is effective in treating conjunctivitis, where it fights infection and reduces inflammation. To treat

your companion’s eyes with Oregon grape, dilute 4 drops of the alcohol tincture (available at your favorite herb

store), or 8 drops of a root decoction, into 1 ounce of sterile saline (available anywhere contact lens supplies are

sold). Place a few drops into the infected eye, taking note of any discomfort that may result from the berberine or the

alcohol content of the tincture. Some animals are more intolerant than others. If the solution appears to irritate the

eyes, dilute it with more saline and flush the eye with plain saline before applying more solution.

俄勒冈葡萄可有效治疗结膜炎，抵抗感染并减少炎症。要使用俄勒冈葡萄治疗伴侣的眼睛，请将 4 滴酒

精酊剂（您最喜欢的药草店有售）或 8 滴根汤稀释到 1 盎司无菌盐水（任何出售隐形眼镜用品的地方都有

售）。将几滴滴入受感染的眼睛中，注意小檗碱或酊剂中的酒精含量可能引起的任何不适。有些动物比其

他动物更不宽容。如果溶液似乎刺激眼睛，请用更多的盐水稀释，并在使用更多溶液之前用生理盐水冲洗

眼睛。

Oregon grape root is also noted for its ability to stimulate liver function. It is particularly helpful in cases of

chronic constipation associated with poor protein or fat metabolism, situations that often lead to itchy, flaky skin and

a dull coat in animals. Used under these circumstances, Oregon grape extract can bring fast and dramatic results, and

it does so by addressing an underlying cause of the problem. Generally speaking from a holistic perspective, many

forms of dermatitis are symptoms of an underlying liver dysfunction. If the liver cannot eliminate excess toxins or is

functionally compromised by blockages that reduce bile flow or production, the digestive tract fails at its job of

=== PAGE 268 ===
eliminating waste. One of the first places the body tries to force elimination is through the skin. Oregon grape works

in the liver much like a strong version of dandelion—bile production and flow is increased, and digestive efficiency

is improved. But Oregon grape stimulates liver function much faster than does dandelion, irritating the organ into

working harder. For this reason, Oregon grape should not be used in animals with acute liver disease or existing

liver injuries without the supervision of a trained professional. And although Oregon grape is safe when used

properly, it is likely to overexcite the liver of most animals if used excessively. If this occurs, your animal will

probably vomit because of excessive bile in the stomach; you should stop using Oregon grape and consider a gentler

herb such as dandelion. In any case, it is best not to give any herbal medicine every day of an animal’s life. Instead,

give whatever herbs you are using four to five days per week, then let the animal’s system rest for two or three days

before proceeding. This break time also gives you an opportunity to monitor changes that may be occurring as a

result of your therapeutic efforts.

俄勒冈葡萄根还因其刺激肝功能的能力而闻名。它对于与蛋白质或脂肪代谢不良有关的慢性便秘特别有

帮助，这种情况通常会导致动物皮肤发痒、剥落和皮毛暗淡。在这些情况下使用俄勒冈葡萄提取物可以带

来快速而显着的效果，并且它通过解决问题的根本原因来实现这一点。一般来说，从整体角度来看，许多

形式的皮炎都是潜在肝功能障碍的症状。如果肝脏无法消除多余的毒素，或者因阻塞而导致胆汁流动或产

生减少，从而导致功能受损，那么消化道就无法完成消除废物的工作。身体首先尝试强制排泄的地方之一

是通过皮肤。俄勒冈葡萄在肝脏中的作用就像增强版的蒲公英一样——胆汁的产生和流动增加，消化效率

提高。但俄勒冈葡萄刺激肝功能的速度比蒲公英快得多，会刺激该器官更加努力地工作。因此，未经训练

有素的专业人员的监督，不应将俄勒冈葡萄用于患有急性肝病或现有肝损伤的动物。尽管俄勒冈葡萄在正

确使用时是安全的，但如果过度使用，它可能会使大多数动物的肝脏过度兴奋。如果发生这种情况，您的

动物可能会因为胃中胆汁过多而呕吐；您应该停止使用俄勒冈葡萄并考虑使用更温和的草药，例如蒲公

英。无论如何，最好不要在动物一生中每天都给予任何草药。相反，每周给予您使用的任何草药四到五

天，然后让动物的系统休息两到三天，然后再继续。 这个休息时间还让您有机会监测因治疗努力而可能发

生的变化。

The bitter tonic action of the alkaloid constituents in Oregon grape make this herb a useful digestive aid. When a

drop or two of the root tincture is placed on the tongue, or when a leaf is chewed, an instantaneous salivary response

occurs. At the same time, mechanisms are triggered that release bile and various other enzymes and acids into the

digestive tract. The digestive system is therefore primed into action before the food arrives. Giving this bitter tonic

daily is an excellent holistic approach to safely treating chronic indigestion and malabsorption. If you or your animal

has problems with excess gas or with foods that tend to pass through undigested, try using a small dose of Oregon

grape before each meal. The results will probably amaze you.

俄勒冈葡萄中生物碱成分的苦味补品作用使这种草药成为有用的消化助剂。当将一两滴根酊剂放在舌头

上或咀嚼一片叶子时，就会立即产生唾液反应。同时，触发机制将胆汁和各种其他酶和酸释放到消化道

中。因此，消化系统在食物到达之前就已做好准备。每天服用这种苦味补品是安全治疗慢性消化不良和吸

收不良的绝佳整体方法。如果您或您的动物存在气体过多或食物未消化的问题，请尝试在每餐前使用少量

俄勒冈葡萄。结果可能会让您感到惊讶。

Oregon grape can also be used as an antibacterial in the urinary tract and is regarded by herbalists as an effective

remedy for infections of the bladder, kidneys, and urethra. Again, the antibacterial effect of Oregon grape in the

urinary tract is attributable to berberine, which stays effective long enough to reach deep into the body. Since most

infections of the urinary tract are associated with uncomfortable inflammation, combining this herb with the

soothing effects of marshmallow, licorice, or plantain is a good idea. Generally, a formula made with one part

Oregon grape to two parts of other soothing herbs is a good infection-fighting, pain-relieving approach.

俄勒冈葡萄还可用作泌尿道抗菌剂，被草药学家视为治疗膀胱、肾脏和尿道感染的有效药物。同样，俄

勒冈葡萄在泌尿道中的抗菌作用归因于小檗碱，它的有效时间足够长，可以深入到体内。由于大多数尿路

感染都与不舒服的炎症有关，因此将这种草药与具有舒缓作用的棉花糖、甘草或车前草结合起来是个好主

意。一般来说，用一份俄勒冈葡萄和两份其他舒缓草药制成的配方是一种很好的抗感染、缓解疼痛的方

法。

When combined in small proportions with echinacea, Oregon grape combats the infection directly while the

immune system plays catch-up with invading pathogens. At the same time, Oregon grape helps to support the liver

at its job of keeping the body clean through elimination of waste, a critical process of maintaining balanced body

functions while the body heals. And while conventional antibiotic therapies tend not to discriminate between

beneficial microbes and bad ones, the body is allowed to fight infection by natural mechanisms with a properly

=== PAGE 269 ===
proportioned berberine-containing herbal support formula without compromising its own microbial warriors.

Instead, it receives a measured degree of outside support and is gently stimulated into working harder toward

victory. A formula consisting of 10 percent Oregon grape and 90 percent echinacea is generally appropriate for this

purpose.

当俄勒冈葡萄与紫锥菊少量混合时，可以直接对抗感染，同时免疫系统可以追赶入侵的病原体。与此同

时，俄勒冈葡萄有助于支持肝脏通过消除废物来保持身体清洁，这是在身体康复时保持身体功能平衡的关

键过程。虽然传统的抗生素疗法往往不会区分有益微生物和有害微生物，但身体可以通过自然机制，使用

适当比例的含有小檗碱的草药支持配方来对抗感染，而不会损害其自身的微生物战士。相反，它会得到一

定程度的外部支持，并受到温和的刺激，更加努力地争取胜利。由 10% 俄勒冈葡萄和 90% 紫锥菊组成的配

方通常适合此目的。

In addition to its liver and disinfectant benefits, berberine is known to possess mild but useful sedative qualities

and may be effective as an anticonvulsive remedy. It has also been shown to help lower blood pressure and is

believed to slightly elevate blood sugar levels in hypoglycemic animals.

除了其肝脏和消毒功效外，小檗碱还具有温和但有用的镇静作用，并且可能作为一种有效的抗惊厥药

物。它还被证明有助于降低血压，并被认为可以略微提高低血糖动物的血糖水平。

Availability: The plants are available through landscape nurseries. Oregon grape root is available in a variety of

forms from herb retailers.

可用性：这些植物可通过景观苗圃获得。俄勒冈葡萄根可从药草零售商处购买到多种形式。

Propagation and Harvest: Oregon grape is widely adaptable to gardens throughout most of North America. Tall

Oregon grape (M. aquifolium) is the most common variety in commerce and is becoming popular as a landscape

shrub. It is quite easy to grow from root cuttings, seeds, or transplants. These plants are drought tolerant and winter

hardy. All they essentially need is slightly acidic soil and plenty of redwood compost, but they flourish when

afforded at least three hours of shade each day and a good weekly watering. Roots can be dug from mature plants

anytime during the year. They can be dried and kept in plastic bags for two or three years.

繁殖和收获：俄勒冈葡萄广泛适应北美大部分地区的花园。高大的俄勒冈葡萄（M. aquifolium）是商业上最

常见的品种，并且作为景观灌木而变得流行。它很容易通过根插条、种子或移植物生长。这些植物耐旱、

耐寒。它们所需要的只是微酸性土壤和大量的红木堆肥，但只要每天至少三个小时的阴凉处和每周良好的

浇水，它们就会茂盛生长。一年中的任何时候都可以从成熟的植物中挖出根。它们可以干燥并在塑料袋中

保存两到三年。

Alternatives and Adjuncts: In ear oils, combine with garlic and vitamin E oil. To aid in liver congestion and to

improve digestion, dandelion root serves as a weaker alternative. For Giardia and worms, Oregon grape combines

with garlic. In eyewashes, Oregon grape combines especially well with raspberry leaf. For urinary tract infections,

marshmallow, plantain, or licorice serve as soothing adjuncts.

替代品和添加剂：在耳油中，与大蒜和维生素 E 油混合。为了帮助肝脏充血并改善消化，蒲公英根是一种

较弱的替代品。对于贾第鞭毛虫和蠕虫，俄勒冈葡萄与大蒜结合使用。在洗眼剂中，俄勒冈葡萄与覆盆子

叶的结合特别好。对于尿路感染，棉花糖、车前草或甘草可作为舒缓辅助剂。

Cautions and Comments: Oregon grape should not be used in animals with acute liver disease or existing liver

injuries without the supervision of a professional. It has been theorized that too much berberine may inhibit vitamin

B assimilation.

注意事项和评论：未经专业人士的监督，俄勒冈葡萄不应用于患有急性肝病或现有肝损伤的动物。据推

测，过多的小檗碱可能会抑制维生素 B 的同化。

=== PAGE 270 ===
OXEYE DAISY

牛眼菊

Chrysanthemum

菊花

leucanthemum

白花

Sunflower Family

向日葵家族

Appearance: It brings us satisfaction to tell you about useful plants that can be easily grown in any garden, but it

brings us special joy to tell you about useful plants that already grow on the edges of driveways and in vacant lots.

Oxeye daisy is such a plant. To the herbalist, a weed is simply a plant with attributes that have yet to be realized.

When the usefulness of such plants is brought to light, people reconsider their approaches to weed control. This

usually means a reduction in the use of toxic herbicides, which end up in the environment.

外观：告诉您可以在任何花园中轻松种植的有用植物让我们感到满意，但告诉您已经在车道边缘和空地上

生长的有用植物让我们感到特别高兴。牛眼菊就是这样一种植物。对于草药师来说，杂草只是一种具有尚

未实现的属性的植物。当这些植物的用途被揭露后，人们重新考虑他们的杂草控制方法。这通常意味着减

少最终进入环境的有毒除草剂的使用。

Oxeye daisy is a wild relative of pyrethrum daisy (genus Pyrethrum), which is cultivated for its insecticidal

properties. Oxeye daisy looks similar to the pyrethrum daisy; in fact at first glance it looks like any other white

daisy. But close examination of this plant’s unique leaf characteristics makes it easy to differentiate from all others

during any stage of its perennial growth cycle. The basal leaves of oxeye have proportionately long petioles (leaf

stems) and are spoon-shaped with rounded teeth along the edges. The leaves of the upper plant lack petioles, and the

flowers are typically daisylike: white with yellow centers and up to 3 inches wide. The entire plant may reach 3 feet

in height.

牛眼菊是除虫菊（除虫菊属）的野生近缘种，因其具有杀虫特性而被种植。牛眼菊看起来与除虫菊相

似。事实上，乍一看，它看起来和其他白色雏菊没什么两样。但仔细检查这种植物独特的叶子特征，可以

很容易地将其在多年生生长周期的任何阶段与其他植物区分开来。牛眼草的基生叶具有比例较长的叶柄

（叶茎），呈匙形，边缘有圆形齿。上部植物的叶子没有叶柄，花朵通常呈雏菊状：白色，中心黄色，宽

达 3 英寸。整个植物的高度可达3英尺。

Habitat and Range: Oxeye daisy is a Eurasian import that is now common to roadsides and dry waste areas

throughout the northern half of North America, up to about 6,000 feet in elevation.

栖息地和分布范围：牛眼菊是欧亚大陆进口的植物，现在常见于北美洲北半部海拔约 6,000 英尺的路边和干

燥荒地。

Cycle and Bloom Season: Plants bloom first in early summer, then often remain in bloom until fall.

周期和开花季节：植物在初夏首先开花，然后通常一直开花到秋天。

Parts Used: Leaves and flowers

使用部分：叶子和花

=== PAGE 271 ===
Primary Medicinal Activities: Antihistamine, insecticidal (used for fleas), diuretic, stops bleeding

主要药用活性：抗组胺药、杀虫剂（用于跳蚤）、利尿剂、止血剂

Strongest Affinities: Respiratory tract, skin

最强的亲和力：呼吸道、皮肤

Preparation: Tea, tincture, or dried powdered herb

准备：茶、酊剂或干药草粉

Common Uses: The leaves are recognized by some contemporary herbalists for their diuretic and hemostatic

qualities, and clinical research suggests that the leaf tea may also be effective as an antihistamine medicine that

slows the body’s responses to allergens while helping to reduce excess secretions of mucus. The flower tea is

especially useful for helping to relieve seasonal hay fever characterized by sneezing and watery discharges from the

nose and eyes. At the onset of symptoms, 1 tablespoon of the strong tea can be fed to dogs as part of their daily diet

throughout the crisis period. Cats and other small mammals need only 1 teaspoon. Horses and other herbivores can

be allowed to eat the fresh plants from their pastures, and rabbits can be given a stem or two of the flowering plant

each day.

常见用途：一些当代草药学家认为叶子具有利尿和止血的功效，临床研究表明，叶茶也可能有效作为一种

抗组胺药，可以减缓身体对过敏原的反应，同时有助于减少粘液的过量分泌。花茶特别有助于缓解季节性

花粉热，其特征是打喷嚏和鼻子和眼睛流水样分泌物。症状出现时，可以给狗喂一汤匙浓茶，作为整个危

机期间日常饮食的一部分。猫和其他小型哺乳动物只需要 1 茶匙。马和其他食草动物可以吃牧场上的新鲜

植物，兔子每天可以吃一两根开花植物的茎。

As is true of its cultivated cousins, the flowers of oxeye daisy contain useful amounts of pyrethrin, a natural

insecticide that is useful for controlling fleas. To use oxeye daisy in this capacity, make a skin rinse from the fresh

chopped flowers or apply the dried flowers as a mildly effective but safe and natural flea powder.

与它的栽培近亲一样，牛眼菊的花朵含有大量的除虫菊酯，这是一种天然杀虫剂，可用于控制跳蚤。要

以这种方式使用牛眼菊，请用新鲜切碎的花冲洗皮肤，或将干花用作温和有效但安全且天然的跳蚤粉。

=== PAGE 272 ===
Pyrethrum roseum

除虫菊

As a diuretic, oxeye daisy can increase urinary output and dilute urine that is over-concentrated, strong smelling,

and too acidic, and it lends weak but measurable astringent and antimicrobial properties to inflamed urinary

membranes.

作为一种利尿剂，牛眼菊可以增加尿量并稀释浓度过高、气味强烈且酸性过高的尿液，并且它对发炎的

尿膜具有微弱但可测量的收敛和抗菌特性。

Oxeye daisy is often abundant on the margins of horse and stock trails, making it readily available as a first aid

remedy for minor cuts, fly bites, and such. The fresh-leaf poultice can be applied directly to the site of injury to help

stop bleeding. Combine it with one of many antimicrobial herbs that grows nearby (such as yarrow or bee balm),

and you’ll have an excellent, broad-spectrum field dressing.

牛眼菊通常长在马道和牲畜道的边缘，可以作为轻微割伤、苍蝇叮咬等的急救药物。新鲜叶子的膏药可

以直接涂抹在受伤部位，以帮助止血。将其与附近生长的多种抗菌草药之一（例如西洋蓍草或蜂香膏）结

合使用，您将获得一种出色的广谱野外敷料。

Availability: A widely distributed weed, oxeye daisy is available through nurseries.

可用性：牛眼菊是一种分布广泛的杂草，可通过苗圃获得。

Propagation and Harvest: Oxeye daisy is easy to grow from seeds or transplants. It is drought tolerant, winter

hardy, and adaptable to any soil. All oxeye daisy really needs is full sun.

繁殖和收获：牛眼菊很容易通过种子或移植来生长。它耐旱，耐寒，适应任何土壤。牛眼菊真正需要的只

是充足的阳光。

=== PAGE 273 ===
Alternatives and Adjuncts: As a fleafighting alternative, try feverfew. For seasonal allergies, oxeye daisy can be

combined with or replaced by nettle. Dandelion leaf is a much more effective diuretic.

替代品和辅助品：作为跳蚤的替代品，尝试小白菊。对于季节性过敏，牛眼菊可以与荨麻结合使用或用荨

麻代替。蒲公英叶是一种更有效的利尿剂。

Cautions and Comments: Some animals may be highly allergic to this plant—test a small amount of the tea on

your companion’s skin before using. If redness or any other response occurs, don’t feed it to your animal!

注意事项和评论：有些动物可能对这种植物高度过敏，使用前请在同伴的皮肤上测试少量茶。如果出现发

红或任何其他反应，请勿将其喂给您的动物！

=== PAGE 274 ===
PARSLEY

香菜

Petroselinum crispum

岩芹

Parsley Family

欧芹家族

Appearance: There are numerous cultivars of this familiar herb—their primary differences being leaf size and root

variations. The most common varieties have tightly curled leaves, whereas Italian parsley (P. crispus var.

neapolitanum) has leaves that are more like those of celery. Hamburg parsley (P. crispum var. tuberosum ) has a

thick turniplike taproot and fernlike leaves. All produce terminate umbel flowers, and most will grow to about 3 feet

tall.

外观：这种熟悉的草本植物有许多品种，它们的主要区别在于叶子的大小和根的变化。最常见的品种有紧

密卷曲的叶子，而意大利欧芹（P. Crispus var. neapolitanum）的叶子更像芹菜。汉堡欧芹（P. Criscum var.

tuberosum）有粗大的萝卜状主根和蕨类植物的叶子。所有产品都会终止伞形花序，大多数会长到约 3 英尺

高。

Habitat and Range: Originally a native of southeast Europe and west Asia, parsley is now cultivated worldwide.

栖息地和范围：欧芹原产于东南欧和西亚，现在在世界各地种植。

Cycle and Bloom Season: A perennial that blooms in midsummer

周期和开花季节：在仲夏开花的多年生植物

Parts Used: Leaves, seeds, and roots

使用部分：叶、种子和根

Primary Medicinal Activities: Expels intestinal gas, lowers blood pressure, nutritive, diuretic, helps reduce

arthritic inflammation, promotes menstrual discharge, insecticidal, antimicrobial

主要药用活性：排出肠道气体、降低血压、营养、利尿、帮助减少关节炎炎症、促进月经排出、杀虫、抗

菌

Strongest Affinities: Digestive and urinary tracts, joints

最强的亲和力：消化道、泌尿道、关节

Preparation: Tea, tincture, or fresh or dried herb

制剂：茶、酊剂、新鲜或干草药

Common Uses: Parsley is much more than a plate garnish. In fact, it is one of the most versatile medicinal plants

around—it is an absolute “must have” in the home herb garden.

=== PAGE 275 ===
常见用途：欧芹不仅仅是盘子装饰。事实上，它是用途最广泛的药用植物之一——它绝对是家庭药草园

的“必备品”。

Parsley root is known by herbalists as an excellent diuretic that is especially beneficial in the treatment of

rheumatoid conditions. For humans, it is considered a specific remedy in the treatment of gout; it is believed to help

with the elimination of uric acid that would otherwise contribute to the buildup of painful crystals in the joints. For

animals, parsley root is useful in cases of arthritis that are compounded or perhaps even caused by poor waste

elimination, a problem that is often the result of a poor diet. For these purposes, dogs and cats can be given a strong

tea of the dried or freshly grated root (1 teaspoon of the strong tea per day for cats; 1–2 tablespoons for dogs), or a

tincture can be used (1–2 milliliters per 30 pounds of the animal’s body weight). Horses can be fed a few handfuls of

the entire fresh plant (leaves, roots, and all) each day, or a cup of the dried herb daily. Parsley root is especially

effective when combined with alternatives, hepatics, and anti-inflammatory herbs.

欧芹根被草药学家认为是一种极好的利尿剂，对于治疗类风湿性疾病特别有益。对于人类来说，它被认

为是治疗痛风的特效药物；它被认为有助于消除尿酸，否则尿酸会导致关节中疼痛晶体的积聚。对于动物

来说，欧芹根对于治疗由废物消除不良引起的复合关节炎或什至可能是由不良饮食引起的问题很有用。为

此，可以给狗和猫喝干的或新鲜磨碎的根的浓茶（猫每天 1 茶匙浓茶；狗 1-2 汤匙），或者可以使用酊剂

（1-2每 30 磅动物体重毫升）。每天可以给马喂几把整个新鲜植物（叶子、根等），或者每天喝一杯干草

本植物。欧芹根与替代品、护肝药和抗炎药草结合使用特别有效。

Parsley leaves and stems are very nutritious, containing up to 22 percent protein and impressive amounts of

vitamins A, C, B1, B2, and K, as well as fiber, calcium, riboflavin, potassium, iron, magnesium, niacin, and

phosphorus. This makes parsley an excellent nutritive in the treatment of anemia. The leaves also contain apiol and

several other volatile oils that have antiseptic qualities, making the herb useful for urinary tract infections. And

because parsley is a diuretic, it may help boost kidney function in cases of noninflammatory, early-onset renal

failure. Apiol also has a stimulant and strengthening effect on intestinal and uterine muscles, making it suitable for

improving uterine muscle tone after a difficult pregnancy. In the digestive tract, this tonic activity combines with

parsley’s carminative properties, making it effective in the treatment of flatulent dyspepsia and colic.

欧芹叶和茎营养丰富，含有高达 22% 的蛋白质和大量维生素 A、C、B 1 、B 2 和 K，以及纤维、钙、核

黄素、钾、铁、镁、烟酸和磷。这使得欧芹成为治疗贫血的极佳营养品。叶子还含有芹菜醇和其他几种具

有防腐功效的挥发油，使这种草药可用于治疗尿路感染。由于欧芹是一种利尿剂，它可能有助于在非炎症

性早发性肾衰竭的情况下增强肾功能。 Apiol 还对肠道和子宫肌肉有刺激和强化作用，使其适合在困难妊娠

后改善子宫肌张力。在消化道中，这种滋补活性与欧芹的驱风特性相结合，使其能够有效治疗胀气性消化

不良和绞痛。

Perhaps the best way to use parsley leaf for gastric or urinary disorders or for its nutritional qualities is to juice it.

If you don’t have a vegetable juicer, pack an electric blender halfway full with fresh leaves and add just enough

water to liquefy the leaves into a dark green soup. The juice, or “blender soup,” can be fed directly to an animal with

an empty stomach (the best option) or added to your companion’s drinking water (second best) or food (the last

resort)—1 teaspoon per 20 pounds of the animal’s body weight. The juice (or a few drops of the leaf tincture) also

serves as an excellent breath freshener.

也许使用欧芹叶治疗胃病或泌尿系统疾病或其营养品质的最佳方法是将其榨汁。如果您没有蔬菜榨汁

机，请在电动搅拌机中放入半满的新鲜叶子，然后添加足够的水，将叶子液化成深绿色的汤。果汁或“搅拌

汤”可以直接喂给空腹的动物（最佳选择），也可以添加到同伴的饮用水（次佳）或食物中（最后的选择）

——每 20 磅动物加入 1 茶匙。动物的体重。果汁（或几滴叶酊剂）也可以作为极好的口气清新剂。

Availability: Plants are available through nurseries. The herb is also available in various forms through health food

and herb retailers everywhere.

可用性：植物可通过苗圃获得。这种草药还可以通过各地的保健食品和草药零售商以各种形式购买。

Propagation and Harvest: Parsley is easy to grow from seed or transplants. If given rich, well-drained soil, it will

return year after year. If allowed to go to seed, it will sprout up all over the garden.

繁殖和收获：欧芹很容易通过种子或移植来生长。如果给予肥沃、排水良好的土壤，它会年复一年地回

=== PAGE 276 ===
归。如果允许播种，它会在整个花园里发芽。

Petroselinum crispum

岩芹

Alternatives and Adjuncts: For rheumatoid conditions, shepherd’s purse serves as an effective substitute. For

urinary infections, consider corn silk, couch grass, echinacea, uva ursi, and horsetail as alternatives or adjuncts. For

colic and other digestive disorders, fennel, dill, slippery elm, plantain, marshmallow, cleavers, and licorice should

all be investigated. Raspberry leaf or nettle serves as alternative uterine tonics or nutritives.

替代品和辅助品：对于类风湿性疾病，荠菜是一种有效的替代品。对于泌尿道感染，可以考虑使用玉米

须、茅草、紫锥菊、熊果和木贼作为替代品或辅助品。对于绞痛和其他消化系统疾病，茴香、莳萝、滑

榆、车前草、棉花糖、切肉刀和甘草都应该进行研究。覆盆子叶或荨麻可作为替代子宫补品或营养品。

Cautions and Comments: Parsley, in dried, fresh, or tea form is very safe. However, highly concentrated

preparations of the seed, such as parsley essential oil, are rich in volatile oils that can be absorbed into the placenta,

so don’t use the essential oil internally or externally during an animal’s pregnancy. While it is thought to aid the

healing process after birthing, it may reduce lactation and should be used conservatively in nursing mothers. Parsley

should not be used if inflammation of the kidneys exists.

注意事项和评论：干欧芹、新鲜欧芹或茶形式的欧芹都是非常安全的。然而，高度浓缩的种子制剂，例如

欧芹精油，富含可以被胎盘吸收的挥发油，因此在动物怀孕期间不要内服或外用精油。虽然它被认为有助

于产后的愈合过程，但它可能会减少哺乳期，因此哺乳期母亲应保守使用。如果肾脏存在炎症，则不应使

用欧芹。

Parsley seeds contain the highest concentration of volatile oils, including a considerable amount of myristicin.

Myristicin can have strong hypotensive and hallucinogenic effects, especially in cats, and may cause liver damage or

photosensitivity if ingested in large enough quantities. Although such instances are rare, and it’s unlikely that an

animal could eat enough parsley seed to cause such problems, it’s best to be safe by using only parsley leaves,

=== PAGE 277 ===
stems, and roots, which contain much lower concentrations of myristicin.

欧芹种子含有最高浓度的挥发油，其中包括大量的肉豆蔻苷。肉豆蔻甙具有强烈的降血压和致幻作用，

尤其是对猫来说，如果摄入足够多，可能会导致肝损伤或光过敏。尽管这种情况很少见，而且动物吃足够

的欧芹种子不太可能导致此类问题，但为了安全起见，最好只使用欧芹叶、茎和根，因为它们的肉豆蔻苷

浓度要低得多。

=== PAGE 278 ===
PLANTAIN

芭蕉

Plantago sp.

车前子属

Plantain Family

车前草家族

Appearance: Common plantain (Plantago major) is characterized by its low-growing rosette of broad leaves and its

rather drab but distinctive flower cluster. The sturdy succulent leaves are on proportionately long petioles and have

distinct parallel veins that contain strong fibers. Flowers are small and inconspicuous, borne in tightly arranged

sausage-shaped spikes atop leafless stalks that reach well above the rest of the plant. Ten or more species of the

Plantago genus inhabit western North America, with common plantain by far the most widespread and abundant.

外观：普通车前草（Plantago Major）的特点是其低矮的宽叶莲座丛和相当单调但独特的花簇。坚固的多汁

叶子长在相当长的叶柄上，并具有明显的平行叶脉，其中含有坚固的纤维。花朵小而不显眼，长在无叶茎

上的紧密排列的香肠状穗状花序中，茎远高于植物的其他部分。北美西部栖息着十种或更多车前草属植

物，其中普通车前草是迄今为止分布最广、数量最多的。

Habitat and Range: Common plantain is frequently found in high impact areas, growing in the center of dirt roads,

walkways, and even the cracks in highways. It is widespread throughout most of North America.

栖息地和分布范围：普通车前草常见于高影响地区，生长在土路、人行道甚至高速公路裂缝的中心。它广

泛分布于北美大部分地区。

Cycle and Bloom Season: An annual or perennial that blooms March through August

周期和开花季节：一年生或多年生植物，三月至八月开花

Parts Used: All parts of the plant

使用部件： 工厂的所有部件

Primary Medicinal Activities: Lubricates, soothes, and protects internal mucous membranes; emollient; astringent;

anti-inflammatory; stops bleeding

主要药用活性：润滑、舒缓和保护内部粘膜；润肤剂；涩;消炎（药;止血

Strongest Affinities: Digestive and urinary tracts, skin

最强亲和力：消化道、泌尿道、皮肤

Preparation: Tincture, tea, poultice, or dried seed husks

制剂：酊剂、茶、膏剂或干种子壳

Common Uses: Plantain is one of many useful plants that have been forgotten by virtue of its abundance and its

=== PAGE 279 ===
reputation as a weed. Many of us step on it while en route to the vegetable garden, unaware that it may be more

nutritious than the vegetables we tend. Plantain is high in vitamins C, A, and K.

常见用途：车前草是许多有用的植物之一，但由于其丰富性和杂草的声誉而被遗忘。我们中的许多人在去

菜园的路上踩到它，没有意识到它可能比我们种植的蔬菜更有营养。车前草富含维生素 C、A 和 K。

In essence, plantain can be used in the same ways as slippery elm. The mucilaginous and astringent qualities of

plantain make it an excellent remedy for reducing inflammations inside and on the body. The aucubin and saponin

constituents of plantain have been shown to have antibacterial properties, especially against Micrococcus flavus,

Staphylococcus aureus, and Bacillus subtilus. All of these activities combine to make plantain useful in a wide range

of urinary, digestive, and respiratory ailments.

从本质上讲，车前草的使用方法与滑榆相同。车前草的粘液和收敛特性使其成为减少体内和身体炎症的

绝佳药物。车前草的桃叶珊瑚苷和皂苷成分已被证明具有抗菌特性，特别是针对黄微球菌、金黄色葡萄球

菌和枯草芽孢杆菌。所有这些活性结合在一起，使车前草可用于治疗多种泌尿、消化和呼吸系统疾病。

In the urinary tract, plantain can help stop minor bleeding, reduce inflammation, and relieve pain that is secondary

to bacterial infection or the passing of small stones (gravel). In the digestive tract, plantain relieves diarrhea and the

symptoms of various types of inflammatory bowel disease. Its lubricating properties and anti-inflammatory activities

make it useful for treating irritations of the stomach and intestinal tract that occur when an animal eats something

that is difficult to pass such as pine needles, a bottle cap, or a brand-new sequined handbag. Plantago psyllium is

widely known for its seeds and husks, which are used as an effective laxative and a source of dietary fiber. In the

upper respiratory tract, plantain helps soothe raspy coughs such as those caused by inhaled dust or canine

tracheobronchitis (kennel cough).

在泌尿道中，车前草可以帮助止血、减轻炎症并缓解继发于细菌感染或小结石（砾石）排出的疼痛。在

消化道中，车前草可以缓解腹泻和各种炎症性肠病的症状。它的润滑特性和抗炎活性使其可用于治疗动物

吃了松针、瓶盖或全新亮片手提包等难以排出的东西时引起的胃和肠道刺激。车前子以其种子和外壳而闻

名，它们被用作有效的泻药和膳食纤维的来源。在上呼吸道，车前草有助于缓解刺耳的咳嗽，例如由吸入

灰尘或犬气管支气管炎（犬窝咳）引起的咳嗽。

Plantain is best used fresh. If you have an electric juicer, liquefy the entire plant, roots and all. Otherwise, chop

the washed plants as finely as you can, pack them loosely into a blender, add just enough warm water to cover the

herb, and blend the mixture into a dark-green gooey soup. Don’t use boiling water because it destroys hydrolytic

enzymes that have antibacterial properties. You might end up with a tangle of the strong leaf fibers wrapped around

the blades of your machine—this is normal. Strain the liquid through a sieve and refrigerate it in a sealed glass jar

until you need it. It will keep for about two weeks in a very cold refrigerator. To use the juice for internal problems,

1 teaspoon can be fed for each 20 pounds of a dog’s body weight, once or twice daily. Cats can take up to a teaspoon

of the juice twice daily. It’s best to administer the juice before a meal and with as little added water as possible. If

this isn’t possible, the juice can be added to your companion’s food. For colic, the removal of sand in the digestive

tract, and other digestive problems in horses or other large animals, a handful or two of the fresh plants can be fed as

part of a daily diet.

车前草最好新鲜使用。如果您有电动榨汁机，请将整个植物、根部等全部液化。否则，将洗净的植物尽

可能切碎，松散地放入搅拌机中，加入足够的温水覆盖药草，然后将混合物混合成深绿色的粘稠汤。不要

使用沸水，因为它会破坏具有抗菌特性的水解酶。您最终可能会在机器的叶片上缠绕一团坚固的叶纤维

——这是正常现象。通过筛子过滤液体，然后将其冷藏在密封的玻璃罐中，直到您需要为止。它可以在非

常冷的冰箱中保存大约两周。要使用果汁治疗内部问题，每 20 磅体重的狗可以喂 1 茶匙，每天一到两次。

猫每天最多可以喝两次一茶匙的果汁。最好在饭前喝果汁，并尽可能少加水。如果不可能，可以将果汁添

加到您同伴的食物中。对于马或其他大型动物的绞痛、消化道沙子的清除以及其他消化问题，可以将一把

或两把新鲜植物作为日常饮食的一部分。

A poultice of plantain is one of the best topical first aid remedies for insect bites, stings, minor burns, and site-

specific contact dermatitis (such as minor bouts with stinging nettle). An oil infusion or salve of the fresh or dried

plant can be used for the same purposes.

车前草膏剂是治疗昆虫叮咬、蜇伤、轻微烧伤和特定部位接触性皮炎（例如轻微荨麻发作）的最佳局部

急救药物之一。新鲜或干燥植物的油浸剂或药膏可用于相同目的。

=== PAGE 280 ===
Plantago major

车前子

Availability: A widely distributed weed. The husks of P. psyllium are available through any respectable health food

store, and several psyllium products are now being produced specifically for use in animals. The seeds of several

varieties can be purchased through specialty catalogs.

可用性：一种广泛分布的杂草。车前草的外壳可以通过任何一家受人尊敬的保健食品商店购买，并且现在

正在生产一些专门用于动物的车前草产品。可以通过专业目录购买多个品种的种子。

Propagation and Harvest: Plantain is easy to grow—all it needs is ample water during its germination. Sow the

tiny seeds as sparsely as you can under 1/8 inch of soil, and keep them wet until they sprout. The plants can be

harvested and used anytime, but the mature second-year and older plants make the best medicine.

繁殖和收获：车前草很容易生长——它在发芽期间只需要充足的水即可。将微小的种子尽可能稀疏地撒在

1/8 英寸的土壤下，并保持湿润直至发芽。这些植物可以随时收获和使用，但成熟的二年及老植物是最好的

药物。

Alternatives and Adjuncts: Plantain can be used as a substitute for slippery elm, a hardwood tree that is being

overharvested for its medicinal inner bark. Marshmallow root contains far more mucilage than plantain does, and it

serves as a more effective alternative in cases in which digestive or urinary tract lubrication is needed. In situations

in which the astringency and mucilage content of plantain are not enough to bring relief to urinary irritations, try

combining marshmallow with a stronger astringent such as uva ursi or rose bark.

替代品和辅助品：车前草可以用作滑榆树的替代品，滑榆树是一种硬木树，因其药用内皮而被过度采伐。

药蜀葵根含有比车前草更多的粘液，在需要消化道或泌尿道润滑的情况下，它是更有效的替代品。如果车

前草的收敛剂和粘液含量不足以缓解尿路刺激，请尝试将棉花糖与熊果或玫瑰皮等更强的收敛剂混合。

=== PAGE 281 ===
Cautions and Comments: Side effects are rare with this plant, but some animals may be allergic to it. If your

companion is predisposed to plant allergies, test for sensitivity by applying a small amount to the skin. If no reaction

occurs, proceed with a small internal dose (a few drops), and watch for sneezing, watery eyes, or other signs of

allergic response.

注意和评论：这种植物很少有副作用，但有些动物可能会对它过敏。如果您的同伴容易对植物过敏，请在

皮肤上涂抹少量以测试敏感性。如果没有发生反应，请继续少量内服（几滴），并注意是否打喷嚏、流泪

或其他过敏反应迹象。

=== PAGE 282 ===
RASPBERRY

覆盆子

Rubus sp.

悬钩子属sp。

Rose Family

玫瑰家族

Appearance: Raspberries are generally categorized by color—red or black. Leaf and stem characteristics vary

between species of this widespread genus of shrubs. Most have divided leaves and five-petal flowers that range from

white to crimson in color. The plants are generally found as tangled masses of thorny trailing biennial stems that

yield a tasty reward to those brave enough to reach the choicest berries. All species are medicinally useful.

外观：覆盆子通常按颜色分类——红色或黑色。这种分布广泛的灌木属物种之间的叶子和茎特征各不相

同。大多数有分裂的叶子和五瓣花，颜色从白色到深红色。这些植物通常是一丛丛缠结的、带刺的二年生

茎，对于那些勇敢地摘取精选浆果的人来说，它们会带来美味的奖励。所有物种均具有药用价值。

Habitat and Range: As one travels northward through the Rocky Mountains and the coastal states of the West, the

diversity of species and the number of roadside bramble patches encountered progressively increases. Many species

of Rubus are regarded as invasive weeds. They are common and often abundant inhabitants of pastures, roadside

ditches, and riparian habitats. This genus often cross-pollinates, making exact identification of species difficult in

many areas. And many species have escaped cultivation, making it anybody’s guess where one of these plants will

pop up next. Red raspberry (R. idaeus—illustrated) is one of the most common indigenous species found throughout

North America.

栖息地和范围：随着向北穿越落基山脉和西部沿海各州，物种的多样性和路边荆棘丛的数量逐渐增加。许

多悬钩子属植物被视为入侵杂草。它们是牧场、路边沟渠和河岸栖息地的常见且数量丰富的居民。该属经

常异花授粉，因此在许多地区很难准确识别物种。许多物种已经逃脱了种植，因此人们都在猜测其中一种

植物接下来会在哪里出现。红树莓（R. idaeus - 如图所示）是北美最常见的本土树种之一。

Cycle and Bloom Season: Perennials that bloom and produce fruit from second-year plants, known as canes

周期和开花季节：多年生植物，从第二年植物（称为手杖）开花并结果实

Parts Used: Dried leaves and, of course, the delicious fruit

使用的部分：干叶子，当然还有美味的水果

Primary Medicinal Activities: Astringent, strengthens the uterus (uterotonic), nutritive, diuretic, laxative, mild

sedative

主要药用活性：收敛剂、增强子宫（子宫收缩）、营养、利尿、轻泻剂、温和镇静剂

Strongest Affinities: Female reproductive system, eyes, skin

最强亲和力：女性生殖系统、眼睛、皮肤

=== PAGE 283 ===
Preparation: Infusion, poultice, or tincture

制剂：输液、膏剂或酊剂

Common Uses: Raspberry leaf is a safe and gentle medicinal food. Aside from its nutritional value (it is especially

high in vitamin C), raspberry leaf tea has mild astringent qualities that make it useful for a wide variety of remedial

and tonic therapies. Taken internally, the tea is useful for treating minor digestive tract inflammations and can be

used as a remedy for mild cases of diarrhea. In such instances, a strong infusion can be fed at a dose of 2 ounces per

20 pounds of an animal’s body weight (or 1 ounce for cats), twice daily as needed for relief. Alternatively, the dried

leaf can be used—1 teaspoon per 20 pounds of the animal’s weight, sprinkled onto food daily. For bleeding or

inflamed gums, the powdered leaf can be applied directly to the site of the problem, or the tea can be applied to the

gums with a cotton swab.

常见用途：覆盆子叶是一种安全温和的药用食品。除了其营养价值（维生素 C 含量特别高）之外，覆盆子

叶茶还具有温和的收敛特性，使其可用于多种治疗和滋补疗法。内服茶可有效治疗轻微的消化道炎症，并

可用于治疗轻度腹泻。在这种情况下，可以按照每 20 磅动物体重 2 盎司（或猫 1 盎司）的剂量喂浓输液，

每天两次，以缓解症状。或者，也可以使用干燥的叶子——每 20 磅动物体重使用 1 茶匙，每天撒在食物

上。对于牙龈出血或发炎，可以将粉末状的叶子直接涂抹在有问题的部位，或者用棉签将茶涂抹在牙龈

上。

Traditionally, the leaf tea is perhaps the most widely used “female tonic” in existence. It acts to improve the tone

and elasticity of smooth muscle tissues in and around the uterus. It is useful as a prepregnancy tonic and in pregnant

or postpartum dogs, cats, horses, and other animals during the final weeks of pregnancy. The dried leaf can be

sprinkled onto your animal’s food (at the previously mentioned doses) as a daily tonic, or it can be fed as a tea.

Make the tea by steeping 1 teaspoon of the dried leaf (in a tea ball) in 8 ounces of hot water. The tea can be added to

your animal’s drinking water until the water is noticeably colored. The animal can then drink at will.

传统上，叶茶可能是目前使用最广泛的“女性补品”。它的作用是改善子宫内和子宫周围平滑肌组织的张

力和弹性。它可用作孕前补品，也适用于怀孕或产后的狗、猫、马和其他动物在怀孕的最后几周。干叶子

可以撒在动物的食物上（按照前面提到的剂量）作为日常补品，也可以作为茶喂食。将 1 茶匙干茶叶（放

入茶球中）浸泡在 8 盎司热水中泡茶。可以将茶添加到动物的饮用水中，直到水明显变色。然后动物就可

以随意喝水了。

Raspberry leaf is especially beneficial in the form of a saline eyewash for symptomatic relief of conjunctivitis. To

make an eyewash, infuse 1 teaspoon of dried raspberry leaf in 8 ounces of hot distilled water. Allow the tea to cool,

strain it through a coffee filter, then combine it with enough sterile saline solution to produce a slightly tinted

solution. The cooled full-strength tea can also be used as a soothing scalp or skin rinse—its astringency helps to

relieve minor itchiness.

覆盆子叶以盐水洗眼的形式特别有益于缓解结膜炎症状。要制作洗眼液，请将 1 茶匙干覆盆子叶注入 8

盎司热蒸馏水中。让茶冷却，通过咖啡过滤器过滤，然后将其与足够的无菌盐水溶液混合以产生稍微有色

的溶液。冷却后的浓茶还可以用作舒缓头皮或皮肤冲洗剂——它的收敛性有助于缓解轻微的瘙痒。

Availability: Raspberry leaf is available at health food stores. The canes are available through most nurseries.

可获得性：覆盆子叶可在保健食品商店购买。大多数托儿所都可以买到手杖。

Propagation and Harvest: Raspberries are easy to grow. Transplanted canes produce an abundance of leaves, and

they produce their first fruit during their second year of growth and every year thereafter. The plants like moist,

potassiumrich soil and full sun. Harvest the leaves just before the plants bloom in spring or early summer. Dry them

on a clean non-metallic surface until they are crispy dry. The dried leaves can be stored in plastic bags for a year or

more.

繁殖和收获：覆盆子很容易种植。移植的甘蔗会长出丰富的叶子，并在生长的第二年和此后的每一年结出

第一个果实。植物喜欢潮湿、富含钾的土壤和充足的阳光。在春季或初夏植物开花之前收获叶子。将它们

放在干净的非金属表面上干燥，直至酥脆干燥。干燥的叶子可以在塑料袋中保存一年或更长时间。

=== PAGE 284 ===
Rubus idaeus

悬钩子

Alternatives and Adjuncts: Raspberry serves as a less-threatened substitute for eyebright (Euphrasia spp.), a plant

that is currently at risk of disappearing because of overharvest. The leaves of strawberry (Fragaria spp.) can be used

as a substitute for raspberry leaf. As a female tonic, nettle leaf tea serves as a better substitute because it contains a

much richer array of vital nutrients. Nettle can also be used in eye and skin washes. For conjunctivitis or

inflammation of the mouth that is secondary to bacterial or fungal infection, raspberry leaf combines well with

Oregon grape and echinacea. If the problem appears to be of viral origin, mullein leaf or Saint-John’s-wort may

serve as an effective adjunct. For diarrhea and internal bleeding, stronger alternatives include uva ursi, horsetail,

plantain, and cayenne.

替代品和辅助品：覆盆子是小米草（Euphrasia spp.）的威胁较小的替代品，小米草目前因过度采收而面临

消失的风险。草莓（Fragaria spp.）的叶子可以用作覆盆子叶的替代品。作为女性滋补品，荨麻叶茶是更好

的替代品，因为它含有更丰富的重要营养素。荨麻也可用于眼睛和皮肤清洗。对于继发于细菌或真菌感染

的结膜炎或口腔炎症，覆盆子叶与俄勒冈葡萄和紫锥菊完美结合。如果问题似乎是由病毒引起的，毛蕊花

或圣约翰草可以作为有效的辅助剂。对于腹泻和内出血，更强效的替代品包括熊果、木贼、车前草和辣

椒。

Cautions and Comments: Never use raspberry leaves that are not completely dry. As the leaves wilt, they

temporarily develop toxins that can be nauseating to your animal.

注意和评论：切勿使用未完全干燥的覆盆子叶。当叶子枯萎时，它们会暂时产生毒素，使您的动物感到恶

心。

Despite old claims of raspberry leaf causing uterine contractions, no qualified reports of toxicity have been

recorded for this herb.

尽管过去一直声称覆盆子叶会导致子宫收缩，但尚未记录到这种草药的毒性合格报告。

=== PAGE 285 ===
RED CLOVER

红三叶草

Trifolium pratense

红车轴草

Pea Family

豌豆家族

Appearance: Red clover was introduced to the U.S. from Europe as a feed crop for livestock and has since escaped

cultivation to make itself at home throughout North America. It is characterized by the predominantly threelobed

leaves of the Trifolium genus, of which dozens of species and cultivars are distributed throughout the West. The

differences among these many species may be minute, and positive identification of a specific Trifolium sp. can be

challenging. First, the identification of red clover can begin by recognizing its red, globe-shaped flowers and its soft,

hairy stems. Second, we can see that the flower stems (pedicels) are shorter in length than each of the leaf stems

(petioles). And finally, red clover has a small carrotlike taproot, whereas many clovers have horizontally creeping

roots systems (rhizomes). If all of this fails to answer the question of identity, cheat—find some red clover that has

been cultivated and formulate personalized notes for future reference.

外观：红三叶草作为牲畜饲料作物从欧洲引入美国，后来不再种植，而是在北美各地安家落户。它的特点

是主要是三叶草属的三叶叶，该属植物有数十个物种和品种分布在整个西部地区。这些许多物种之间的差

异可能很小，并且可以肯定地鉴定出特定的三叶草属物种。可能具有挑战性。首先，红三叶草的识别可以

从识别其红色、球形的花朵和柔软、多毛的茎开始。其次，我们可以看到花茎（花梗）的长度比每个叶茎

（叶柄）的长度短。最后，红三叶草有一个像胡萝卜一样的小主根，而许多三叶草有水平匍匐的根系统

（根茎）。如果所有这些都无法回答身份问题，那就作弊吧——找一些已经种植的红三叶草，制定个性化

的笔记以供将来参考。

Habitat and Range: Red clover is widespread in cultivated fields, road margins, gardens, and other disturbed areas

where the plant has been introduced largely through agricultural activities.

栖息地和分布范围：红三叶草广泛分布于耕地、道路边缘、花园和其他受干扰的地区，该植物主要是通过

农业活动引入的。

Cycle and Bloom Season: A short-lived perennial that blooms in early summer

周期和开花季节：一种短暂的多年生植物，在初夏开花

Parts Used: Flowering tops

使用部件： 开花顶部

Primary Medicinal Activities: Helps with blood cleansing, diuretic, expectorant, tonic, antispasmodic, nutritive,

antitumor, effects estrogen production in the body (estrogenic)

主要药用活性：帮助净化血液、利尿、祛痰、滋补、解痉、营养、抗肿瘤、影响体内雌激素的产生（雌激

素）

Strongest Affinities: Liver, blood, and skin

=== PAGE 286 ===
最强的亲和力：肝脏、血液和皮肤

Preparation: Tea, dried or fresh herb, or tincture

准备：茶、干或新鲜药草、或酊剂

Common Uses: Although traditionally red clover has been used and highly acclaimed as a blood-purifying

alterative and anticancer agent for hundreds, perhaps thousands, of years, few scientific studies have been conducted

to substantiate these claims. Regardless, thousands of herbalists and an equal number of people who have witnessed

red clover’s potential as a healing agent and preventative seem to know something. At the root of red clover’s

attributes is an impressive array of protein, magnesium, calcium, potassium, and vitamin C and B complex. All of

these nutrients are joined with a complex assortment of medicinally active chemical compounds. In the mind of a

holistically oriented herbalist, all of these components synergistically amount to an excellent remedy for psoriasis,

eczema, and other skin disorders, especially those believed to be secondary to excess waste materials in the

bloodstream. For such disorders, red clover may be used internally or externally. Internally, a flower tea or tincture

gently stimulates the liver and gallbladder to help optimize digestion and replenish the blood. Externally, a cooled

tea or poultice can be applied to flaky dry, itchy skin for symptomatic relief. Added to an animal’s daily diet as a

preventive measure, you can give a pinch of dried red clover to a dog; a tinier pinch to a cat; and a handful to horses,

llamas, and sheep. A rabbit can be fed a flower or two a day, and for other animals, as with any herb, moderation is

the single-word golden rule.

常见用途：虽然传统上红三叶草一直被用作血液净化替代品和抗癌剂，并广受好评数百年甚至数千年，但

很少有科学研究来证实这些说法。不管怎样，成千上万的草药医生和同等数量的亲眼目睹了红三叶草作为

治疗剂和预防剂的潜力的人似乎都知道一些事情。红三叶草属性的根源在于一系列令人印象深刻的蛋白

质、镁、钙、钾以及维生素 C 和 B 复合物。所有这些营养素都与各种复杂的药用活性化合物结合在一起。

在以整体为导向的草药医生看来，所有这些成分协同作用，是治疗牛皮癣、湿疹和其他皮肤病的极好药

物，特别是那些被认为是继发于血液中过量废物的疾病。对于此类疾病，红三叶草可以内服或外用。在内

部，花茶或酊剂会温和刺激肝脏和胆囊，帮助优化消化和补充血液。在外部，可以将冷却的茶或药膏涂抹

在片状干燥、发痒的皮肤上，以缓解症状。作为预防措施，您可以将一小撮干红三叶草添加到动物的日常

饮食中；对猫来说更小的捏；还有少数是马、美洲驼和羊。兔子每天可以喂一两朵花，对于其他动物来

说，就像任何草药一样，适量是金科玉律。

In horses, red clover is sometimes fed to speed recovery from viral infections of the respiratory tract, particularly

when a persistent cough or excessive secretion of thick mucus from inflamed mucous membranes (catarrh) seem to

be slowing the healing process by adding stress to a rundown animal. Feed ½–2 cups of the flower heads daily as

part of the animal’s feed. If tea is a better option, 3 or 4 heaping tablespoons of the dried flowers steeped in a pint of

water can be fed daily.

对于马，有时会喂红三叶草以加速呼吸道病毒感染的恢复，特别是当持续咳嗽或发炎粘膜（卡他）分泌

过多浓稠粘液时，似乎会增加马匹压力，从而减缓愈合过程。动物。每天喂 ½–2 杯头状花序作为动物饲料

的一部分。如果茶是更好的选择，可以每天喂 3 到 4 汤匙干花，浸泡在一品脱水中。

Much of red clover’s reputation as an anticancer herb stems from its inclusion in the famed Hoxsey Formula and

the still popular Essiac Formula, although skeptics argue that the effectiveness of these formulas are without

validation. Both of these formulas have been used extensively during the past seventy-five years, and many cancer

sufferers, practitioners, and pet owners have claimed near-miraculous results from them. In addition to these

formulas, red clover is often used by itself—again with many favorable claims. As mentioned, scientific evidence to

support these claims is scarce but certainly exists. In 1988, a study published in The Journal of Cancer Research

indicated that the anticancer activity of red clover may in fact be a scientific reality. Specifically, it was found that

the flavonoid constituents in red clover blossoms inhibit the harmful activities of a carcinogenic substance called

benzopyrene, a compound present in charbroiled foods. In an earlier 1970 study that was published in the same

journal, the flavonoid quercetin found in red clover was shown to prevent benzopyrene from becoming active in the

liver and small intestines. While these studies fall short of identifying the breadth of red clover’s activity against

various other carcinogens, they certainly indicate that further research is warranted and add credibility to what

holistic practitioners have been telling us all along.

=== PAGE 287 ===
红三叶草作为抗癌草药的声誉很大程度上源于其被包含在著名的 Hoxsey Formula 和仍然流行的 Essiac

Formula 中，尽管怀疑论者认为这些配方的有效性未经验证。这两种配方在过去七十五年中都被广泛使用，

许多癌症患者、从业者和宠物主人都声称它们具有近乎奇迹的效果。除了这些配方之外，红三叶草还经常

单独使用——同样有许多有利的说法。如前所述，支持这些说法的科学证据很少，但确实存在。 1988年，

《癌症研究杂志》发表的一项研究表明，红三叶草的抗癌活性可能确实是一个科学事实。具体来说，人们

发现红三叶草花中的黄酮类成分可以抑制一种叫做苯并芘的致癌物质的有害活动，苯并芘是一种存在于炭

烤食品中的化合物。 1970 年早些时候发表在同一期刊上的一项研究表明，红三叶草中发现的黄酮类槲皮素

可以防止苯并芘在肝脏和小肠中变得活跃。虽然这些研究未能确定红三叶草对抗各种其他致癌物的活性广

度，但它们无疑表明有必要进行进一步的研究，并增加了整体实践者一直告诉我们的可信度。

Trifolium pratense

红车轴草

In animals with cancerous lesions of the skin or extremities, a poultice of red clover flowers can be applied in the

form of a compress for several hours each day until the animal’s condition (hopefully) improves. Internal doses of

the flower tea or tincture can be used in dogs, cats, horses, and other animals as well. In the fight against cancer,

anything that can be applied safely and without contributing stress to an already stressed body is certainly worth a

try. In our minds, red clover is at the top of the list.

对于皮肤或四肢有癌性病变的动物，可以每天敷用红三叶草花药膏几个小时，直到动物的病情（希望）

得到改善。花茶或酊剂的内部剂量也可用于狗、猫、马和其他动物。在对抗癌症的过程中，任何可以安全

应用且不会给已经承受压力的身体带来压力的方法当然值得一试。在我们看来，红三叶草位居榜首。

Availability: Seed catalogs, feed stores, health food stores, and other herb retailers

可用性：种子目录、饲料商店、保健食品商店和其他草药零售商

=== PAGE 288 ===
Propagation and Harvest: If you have rich, moist soil and a section of garden you wish to delegate to the

spreading, strong-rooted nature of this plant, red clover can be easily propagated from seed. Harvest the flowers

during dry weather in early summer. Use them fresh or dry them indoors on a piece of clean paper. The dried

flowers keep for a year if properly stored.

繁殖和收获：如果您有肥沃、潮湿的土壤和一块花园，您希望将这种植物的传播、根系牢固的特性委托给

您，那么红三叶草可以很容易地用种子繁殖。在初夏干燥的天气里收获花朵。新鲜使用或在室内用一张干

净的纸擦干。如果储存得当，干花可以保存一年。

Alternatives and Adjuncts: For skin problems that are secondary to poor liver metabolism or excessive systemic

waste, red clover combines well with yellow dock, alfalfa, burdock, dandelion root, and nettle.

替代品和辅助品：对于因肝脏代谢不良或全身废物过多而继发的皮肤问题，红三叶草可与黄坞、苜蓿、牛

蒡、蒲公英根和荨麻完美搭配。

Cautions and Comments: When properly used, red clover is a safe herb, but, as is true for many plants, its use does

demand some attention and respect. First, do not use red clover for animals with clotting disorders or in the presence

of internal or external bleeding. This plant contains the compound coumarin, which is cited in many toxicology texts

as having blood-thinning qualities. However, recent studies suggest that the coumarin alone do not really possess

blood-thinning properties. Instead, it is now thought that blood-thinning properties may only occur when certain

molds or fungi develop on the herb as result of improper drying. Red clover is also known to contain estrogenic

isoflavone constituents that may prove toxic to livestock and other animals if fed in large quantities. Cases of acute

skin and digestive disorders have been reported in horses, sheep, cattle, and other animals who have been allowed to

excessively overgraze on fresh red clover. Red clover also possesses some phytoestrogenic principles that

contraindicate this herb’s use in pregnant or lactating animals.

注意和评论：如果使用得当，红三叶草是一种安全的药草，但是，正如许多植物一样，它的使用确实需要

一些关注和尊重。首先，不要将红三叶草用于患有凝血障碍或存在内出血或外出血的动物。这种植物含有

化合物香豆素，许多毒理学文献都引用它具有稀释血液的特性。然而，最近的研究表明，单独的香豆素并

不真正具有稀释血液的特性。相反，现在人们认为，只有当草药因干燥不当而产生某些霉菌或真菌时，才

会出现血液稀释特性。红三叶草还含有雌激素异黄酮成分，如果大量喂养，可能会对牲畜和其他动物有

毒。据报道，马、羊、牛和其他动物因过度吃新鲜红三叶草而出现急性皮肤和消化系统疾病。红三叶草还

具有一些植物雌激素原理，禁止在怀孕或哺乳期动物中使用这种草药。

=== PAGE 289 ===
ROSE

玫瑰

Rosa spp.

蔷薇属

Rose Family

玫瑰家族

Appearance: Most people are familiar with roses. Hundreds of cultivars adorn flower beds to please the senses and

stir the emotions of millions of people worldwide. In addition to the healing power of their beauty, all roses are

medicinally useful. The wild species (of which there are dozens in North America) offer the best-tasting, most

nutritional hips. Wild roses look and smell very much like their domesticated counterparts except that they have

smaller flowers and leaves. Characterized by their white-topink (sometimes yellow), five-petaled flowers, thorny

stems, and bright red to purplish fruit (hips), these plants represent a safe, easy-to-identify, delightful introduction to

nature’s pantry and apothecary.

外观：大多数人都熟悉玫瑰。数百个品种装饰着花坛，以愉悦全世界数百万人的感官并激发他们的情感。

除了美丽的治愈能力之外，所有玫瑰都具有药用价值。野生品种（北美有数十种）提供味道最好、营养最

丰富的臀部。野玫瑰的外观和气味与驯化的玫瑰非常相似，只是它们的花朵和叶子较小。这些植物的特点

是白顶粉红色（有时是黄色）、五瓣花、带刺的茎和鲜红色到紫色的果实（臀部），这些植物代表了对大

自然食品储藏室和药剂师的安全、易于识别、令人愉快的介绍。

Habitat and Range: Wild roses like consistently moist soil and are often found standing in dense thickets at road

margins, in irrigation ditches, and especially as the “defensive edge” of riparian habitats up to about 6,000 feet in

elevation. Several species are native throughout North America. Wood’s rose (Rosa woodsii ) represents one of the

most widespread pink-flowered species to be found in western North America. Multiflora rose (R. multiflora) grows

profusely throughout the midwestern U.S. and eastern Canada, where it forms dense thickets and is often considered

a troublesome weed.

栖息地和范围：野玫瑰喜欢持续湿润的土壤，经常生长在道路边缘、灌溉沟渠的茂密灌木丛中，尤其是海

拔约 6,000 英尺的河岸栖息地的“防御边缘”。有几个物种原产于北美各地。伍德玫瑰（Rosa woodsii）是北

美洲西部分布最广泛的粉红色花品种之一。多花玫瑰（R. multiflora）在美国中西部和加拿大东部大量生

长，形成茂密的灌木丛，通常被认为是一种麻烦的杂草。

Cycle and Bloom Season: A perennial that blooms June through August

周期和开花季节：一种多年生植物，六月至八月开花

Parts Used: Hips, flower petals, leaves, stems, and bark

使用部位：臀部、花瓣、叶子、茎和树皮

Primary Medicinal Activities: Nutritive, astringent, bacteriostatic

主要药用活性：营养、收敛、抑菌

Strongest Affinities: Digestive system, urinary tract, skin

=== PAGE 290 ===
最强亲和力：消化系统、泌尿道、皮肤

Preparation: Fresh or dried hips, petals, leaves, and bark; tincture, tea, or decoction

准备：新鲜或干燥的臀部、花瓣、叶子和树皮；酊剂、茶或汤剂

Common Uses: When we think of roses as medicine, we tend to remember reading “Vitamin C with Rose Hips” on

product labels. But actually, the nutritive value of rose hips represents only a small fraction of the healing attributes

this plant has to offer.

常见用途：当我们将玫瑰视为药物时，我们往往会记得在产品标签上读过“玫瑰果维生素 C”。但实际上，

玫瑰果的营养价值仅代表这种植物所提供的治疗功效的一小部分。

Native Americans used all parts of Rosa spp. in a wide variety of applications. The seeds were cooked and

ingested for relief from muscular pains. The roots were used as a general purpose astringent for diarrhea, sore throat,

conjunctivitis, and to stop bleeding. The flower petals were employed as a bacteriostatic protective bandage on

burns and minor wounds and as a treatment for colic and heartburn. A poultice of the leaves was used for insect

stings and bites. All of these uses can be safely applied to animals.

美洲原住民使用蔷薇属植物的所有部分。在各种各样的应用中。将种子煮熟并摄入以缓解肌肉疼痛。根

部被用作通用收敛剂，用于治疗腹泻、喉咙痛、结膜炎和止血。花瓣被用作烧伤和小伤口的抑菌保护绷

带，以及治疗绞痛和胃灼热。叶子的膏剂用于治疗昆虫叮咬和叮咬。所有这些用途都可以安全地应用于动

物。

Each part of a rose plant represents a different level of astringency. The flower petals are mildly to moderately

astringent and can be made into a sweet-smelling rinse for animals with dry, itchy skin. Petal tea is also useful for

mild to moderate cases of colic and diarrhea or for minor irritations of the mouth and stomach. Making a tea is

simple—infuse a handful of fresh petals in a cup of near-boiling water. After the tea has cooled, it can be fed to dogs

and cats at a dose of 1 tablespoon per 20 pounds of the animal’s body weight, as needed. If necessary it can be added

to your companion’s drinking water. The cooled and strained tea is also useful as an anti-inflammatory eyewash,

especially in cases where redness and eye rubbing is attributable to dust or other environmental irritants.

玫瑰植物的每个部分代表不同程度的涩味。花瓣有轻微至中度的涩味，可制成气味香甜的漱口水，供皮

肤干燥发痒的动物使用。花瓣茶还可用于治疗轻度至中度绞痛和腹泻，或缓解口腔和胃部的轻微刺激。泡

茶很简单——将一把新鲜的花瓣浸入一杯近沸水中。茶冷却后，可以根据需要以每 20 磅动物体重 1 汤匙的

剂量喂给狗和猫。如有必要，可以将其添加到您同伴的饮用水中。冷却并过滤的茶也可用作抗炎洗眼剂，

特别是在眼睛发红和揉眼睛是由于灰尘或其他环境刺激物引起的情况下。

=== PAGE 291 ===
Rosa woodsii

木蔷薇

The leaves are stronger than the flower petals and can be decocted for use as a rinse for contact dermatitis or

inflamed fleabites or fly bites. Internally, the leaf decoction is useful for cystitis and acute digestive tract

inflammations that may be secondary to bacterial or parasitic infection. A typical dose is a 1/2 teaspoon for each 30

pounds of the animal’s weight, once or twice daily, for no longer than four days. The bark and stems offer the

strongest astringency and may be useful for acute cases of urinary or digestive tract inflammation that involve

labored or painful urination, gushing diarrhea, or minor bleeding. Care must be taken to avoid feeding sharp rose

thorns to your companion. The dose is the same as for a leaf decoction, but the maximum duration of use is shorter

—the bark and stem decoction should not be used internally for more than two days.

叶子比花瓣更坚固，可以煎汤作为冲洗剂，用于治疗接触性皮炎或发炎的跳蚤或苍蝇叮咬。在内部，叶

煎剂可用于治疗膀胱炎和可能继发于细菌或寄生虫感染的急性消化道炎症。典型的剂量是每 30 磅动物体重

1/2 茶匙，每天一次或两次，持续不超过四天。树皮和茎具有最强的收敛性，可用于治疗急性泌尿道或消化

道炎症，包括排尿困难或疼痛、腹泻或轻微出血。必须小心避免将锋利的玫瑰刺喂给你的同伴。剂量与叶

煎剂相同，但最长使用时间较短，树皮和茎煎剂内服不应超过两天。

Rose hips are high in vitamin C and serve as a tasty and nutritious treat for animals. Our dogs harvest and eat

them as trail snacks! The whole hip can be fed either fresh or dried. Dried hips can be ground in an electric coffee

grinder and added to your companion’s food as a nutritional supplement. Dogs and cats can be fed ½–1 teaspoon of

the ground hips per cup of food. Horses and other large herbivores can be fed a handful or two each day. Because of

the ascorbic acid content, too much rose hip causes stomach upset or diarrhea. If this happens, cut back on the

amount in the daily feedings.

玫瑰果富含维生素 C，是动物的美味营养食品。我们的狗收获它们并将其作为越野零食食用！整个臀部

可以新鲜或干燥喂养。干臀部可以在电动咖啡研磨机中研磨，然后添加到同伴的食物中作为营养补充剂。

每杯食物可以给狗和猫喂 ½–1 茶匙碎臀肉。马和其他大型食草动物每天可以喂一两把。由于玫瑰果含有抗

坏血酸，过多会导致胃部不适或腹泻。如果发生这种情况，请减少每日喂食量。

=== PAGE 292 ===
Availability: Hundreds of rose varieties are available through nurseries. The best are the smaller-flowered wild

species that are available through nurseries that specialize in native plants.

供应：苗圃可提供数百种玫瑰品种。最好的是花朵较小的野生物种，可以通过专门种植本土植物的苗圃获

得。

Propagation and Harvest: Roses are easy to grow. They prosper in moist, slightly acidic soil. Leaves and flowers

can be harvested any time as long as they look healthy. The hips are harvested in the fall after they turn bright red

but before they shrivel. The hips can be dried indoors on a clean piece of paper. They keep for several years if stored

in a glass jar and kept away from direct sunlight. Don’t grind the hips until you need them, otherwise you greatly

shorten their shelf life. Harvest the stem bark when you prune your roses each year. Most domesticated varieties

have large thorns that can be snapped off. If this isn’t possible, you can use the small thornless end stems and

peduncles (the stem part just beneath the flowers and hips). The stems can be cut into small segments with pruning

clippers or chopped with a sharp knife. They can then be decocted, just like the bark.

繁殖和收获：玫瑰很容易生长。它们在潮湿、微酸性的土壤中生长茂盛。叶子和花可以随时采收，只要它

们看起来健康即可。秋天，臀部变成鲜红色后、枯萎之前收获。臀部可以在室内用一张干净的纸擦干。如

果存放在玻璃罐中并避免阳光直射，它们可以保存几年。在需要的时候不要磨臀部，否则会大大缩短它们

的保质期。每年修剪玫瑰时收获茎皮。大多数驯化品种都有大刺，可以折断。如果不可能，您可以使用小

的无刺末端茎和花序梗（茎部分位于花朵和臀部下方）。茎可以用修枝剪切成小段或用锋利的刀切碎。然

后可以像树皮一样将它们煎煮。

Alternatives and Adjuncts: Raspberry leaf, nettle, and chamomile serve as alternatives where a mild urinary or

digestive astringent is indicated. For acute cystitis or colic, rose leaf or bark combines with marshmallow, licorice,

or slippery elm. Skin rinse alternatives include calendula, chamomile, uva ursi, and juniper. For conjunctivitis,

raspberry leaf serves as a replacement, and Oregon grape serves as an excellent antimicrobial adjunct.

替代品和辅料：覆盆子叶、荨麻和洋甘菊可作为需要轻度泌尿或消化收敛剂的替代品。对于急性膀胱炎或

绞痛，玫瑰叶或树皮与棉花糖、甘草或滑榆混合。皮肤冲洗替代品包括金盏花、洋甘菊、熊果和杜松。对

于结膜炎，覆盆子叶可以作为替代品，俄勒冈葡萄可以作为极好的抗菌辅助剂。

Cautions and Comments: The high tannin content in the bark can irritate the urinary tract and kidneys and can

trigger uterine contractions, therefore rose bark is best avoided in pregnant animals or those with preexisting kidney

problems. Internal use should be limited to acute disorders and short-term therapies (two days or less). Call your

veterinarian immediately if internal bleeding is evident, diarrhea is persistent, or urination is labored.

注意和评论：树皮中的高单宁含量会刺激尿道和肾脏，并可能引发子宫收缩，因此怀孕动物或患有肾脏问

题的动物最好避免使用玫瑰树皮。内部使用应仅限于急性疾病和短期治疗（两天或更短时间）。如果出现

明显内出血、持续腹泻或排尿困难，请立即联系您的兽医。

=== PAGE 293 ===
ROSEMARY

迷迭香

Rosmarinus officinalis

迷迭香

Mint Family

薄荷家族

Appearance: A creeping or erect shrub that can grow to 6 feet tall, rosemary is characterized by its piney fragrance;

narrow, leathery, and densely arranged opposite leaves; and white, pink, or blue 3/8-inch-long flowers.

外观：迷迭香是一种匍匐或直立的灌木，可长到 6 英尺高，其特点是松香；狭长、革质、密集排列的对生

叶；以及白色、粉色或蓝色 3/8 英寸长的花朵。

Habitat and Range: Rosemary is a native of the Mediterranean region, but several cultivars of rosemary are grown

worldwide.

栖息地和范围：迷迭香原产于地中海地区，但世界各地都有种植迷迭香的几个品种。

Cycle and Bloom Season: A perennial that blooms anytime from early spring to late summer, depending on climate

周期和开花季节：多年生植物，从早春到夏末随时开花，具体取决于气候

Parts Used: Leaves, stems, and flowers

使用部位：叶、茎、花

Primary Medicinal Activities: Tonic, antidepressant, stimulant, analgesic, expels intestinal gas, antispasmodic,

promotes menstrual discharge, astringent, antioxidant, antimicrobial, insect repellent

主要药用活性： 滋补剂、抗抑郁剂、兴奋剂、镇痛剂、排出肠气、解痉、促进月经排出、收敛剂、抗氧化

剂、抗菌剂、驱虫剂

Strongest Affinities: Nervous system, digestive tract, circulatory system, respiratory tract, and skin

亲和力最强：神经系统、消化道、循环系统、呼吸道和皮肤

Preparation: Tea, tincture

准备：茶、酊剂

Common Uses: Rosemary is an extremely useful herb. At the top of its list of medicinal attributes are nervine,

antidepressant, antispasmodic, and carminative properties that combine to make rosemary an excellent remedy for

flatulent dyspepsia and other digestive problems that are secondary to general nervousness, excitability, or

irritability. Adding to rosemary’s utility as a calming agent are borneol and an assortment of volatile oils that are

known to have antispasmodic effects upon the heart and other smooth muscles of the body. These activities not only

help moderate cardiac arrhythmia but also serve to strengthen heart function, making rosemary especially beneficial

=== PAGE 294 ===
in situations where an animal is recovering from a fearful or traumatic experience, or even shock. The rosmarinic

acid contained in the plant is believed to have painkilling properties. In any of the aforementioned instances, about

⅛ teaspoon (0.5 milliliter) of tincture can be given orally as a starting dose for each 20 pounds of an animal’s body

weight, up to three times daily. Horses and other large herbivores can be fed a handful of the fresh stems and leaves

daily.

常见用途：迷迭香是一种非常有用的草药。迷迭香的首要药用特性是镇静、抗抑郁、解痉和驱风，这些特

性结合在一起，使迷迭香成为治疗胀气性消化不良和其他继发于一般紧张、兴奋或烦躁的消化问题的绝佳

药物。除了迷迭香作为镇静剂的功效外，冰片和各种挥发油也被认为对心脏和身体其他平滑肌具有解痉作

用。这些活动不仅有助于缓解心律失常，还可以增强心脏功能，使迷迭香在动物从恐惧或创伤经历甚至休

克中恢复的情况下特别有益。该植物中含有的迷迭香酸被认为具有止痛特性。在任何上述情况下，每 20 磅

动物体重可口服约 1/8 茶匙（0.5 毫升）酊剂作为起始剂量，每天最多 3 次。马和其他大型食草动物每天可

以喂一把新鲜的茎和叶。

Rosmarinus officinalis

迷迭香

In addition to its uses as a calming agent, rosemary can be employed as a general cardiovascular tonic, where it

not only serves to moderate and improve heart function but also helps to strengthen capillary structures. And when

added to your companion’s food, rosemary helps mask the flavor of less-palatable herbs and serves as a natural

barrier against food-borne bacteria. The ursolic acid and carnisol constituents of rosemary have antioxidant and

antimicrobial properties that are effective against Pseudomonas fluorescens , Rhodoturula glutinius, and other

pathogens that contribute to food spoilage. In fact, rosemary’s effectiveness is comparable to that of the more

harmful chemical preservatives BHA or BHT. To use rosemary as a preservative, add ¼ teaspoon of powdered herb

to each pound of a dog’s or cat’s homemade diet.

除了用作镇静剂外，迷迭香还可用作一般心血管补品，不仅可以调节和改善心脏功能，还有助于增强毛

细血管结构。当添加到同伴的食物中时，迷迭香有助于掩盖不太美味的草药的味道，并作为抵抗食源性细

菌的天然屏障。迷迭香中的熊果酸和肉尼醇成分具有抗氧化和抗菌特性，可有效对抗荧光假单胞菌、粘红

=== PAGE 295 ===
酵母和其他导致食物腐败的病原体。事实上，迷迭香的功效与危害更大的化学防腐剂 BHA 或 BHT 相当。

要使用迷迭香作为防腐剂，请在每磅狗或猫的自制饮食中添加 1/4 茶匙迷迭香粉。

Rosemary also has excellent antimicrobial properties inside or on your companion’s body. Scientific studies have

shown that it is active against various types of fungi, as well as numerous gram-positive and gram-negative bacteria,

including Staphylococcus albus, Staphylococcus aureus, E. coli, Vibrio cholerae, and corynebacteria.6 This makes

rosemary useful in antibacterial skin and eye rinses; for minor cuts and burns; and for fighting infections of the

mouth, throat, and urinary and digestive tracts.

迷迭香在您伴侣的身体内部或表面还具有出色的抗菌特性。科学研究表明，它对多种类型的真菌以及许

多革兰氏阳性和革兰氏阴性细菌具有活性，包括白色葡萄球菌、金黄色葡萄球菌、大肠杆菌、霍乱弧菌和

棒状杆菌。 6 这使得迷迭香在以下方面非常有用：抗菌皮肤和眼睛冲洗液；用于轻微割伤和烧伤；以及对

抗口腔、喉咙、泌尿道和消化道的感染。

Ten drops of rosemary essential oil can be diluted with 1 ounce of apricot kernel or almond oil for topical use in

the treatment of sprains, arthritic joints, sciatica, and neuralgia. Rubbed into the skin at the site of discomfort, the oil

stimulates capillary circulation and helps to relieve muscular and nerve pain. Do not use undiluted rosemary oil

internally or externally, though, because it is strong and can cause immediate irritation. The oil is contraindicated for

animals who have any type of seizure disorder.

10 滴迷迭香精油可与 1 盎司杏仁油或杏仁油稀释，局部用于治疗扭伤、关节炎、坐骨神经痛和神经痛。

将精油涂抹在不适部位的皮肤上，可刺激毛细血管循环，有助于缓解肌肉和神经疼痛。不过，请勿在内部

或外部使用未稀释的迷迭香油，因为它的强度很强，会立即引起刺激。该油禁止用于患有任何类型癫痫症

的动物。

Availability: Rosemary plants are available through nurseries. The dried or fresh herb is available at grocery and

health food stores.

可获得性：迷迭香植物可通过苗圃获得。干或新鲜的药草可在杂货店和健康食品店购买。

Propagation and Harvest: Rosemary is easy to grow from transplants and can be kept as a houseplant in areas

where winters are severe. It’s not particular about soil and does best in full sun. In the southern and West Coast

portions of the U.S., rosemary is often seen as a hedge-forming landscape shrub, which, unfortunately, is unheard of

in colder climates.

繁殖和收获：迷迭香很容易通过移植生长，并且可以在冬季严寒的地区作为室内植物保存。它对土壤的要

求不高，在阳光充足的情况下生长效果最好。在美国南部和西海岸地区，迷迭香通常被视为一种形成树篱

的景观灌木，不幸的是，在寒冷的气候中这是闻所未闻的。

Rosemary can be started from seed, but germination percentages are poor and the seedlings grow slowly.

Rosemary can be harvested anytime, but the leaves’ medicinal qualities are strongest in late summer.

迷迭香可以从种子开始种植，但发芽率较差，幼苗生长缓慢。迷迭香可以随时采收，但叶子的药用价值

在夏末时最强。

Alternatives and Adjuncts: For depressive disorders or nervousness, rosemary can be combined with skullcap or

oatstraw. If such a problem is causing digestive disorders, such as vomiting, flatulence, and colic, look toward

fennel, dill, flaxseed, parsley, or chamomile as an adjunct. For use as an antimicrobial, rosemary is strengthened by

Oregon grape. For topical first aid, rosemary oil combines with arnica, Saint-John’s-wort, cayenne, aloe, calendula,

or willow bark. For itchy skin and fleas, rosemary and calendula combine as a soothing, healing flea-repellent rinse.

替代品和辅助品：对于抑郁症或紧张症，迷迭香可以与黄芩或燕麦草结合使用。如果此类问题导致消化系

统疾病，例如呕吐、肠胃胀气和绞痛，可以将茴香、莳萝、亚麻籽、欧芹或洋甘菊作为辅助品。作为抗菌

剂，迷迭香通过俄勒冈葡萄得到增强。对于局部急救，迷迭香油可与山金车、圣约翰草、辣椒、芦荟、金

盏花或柳树皮混合使用。对于瘙痒的皮肤和跳蚤，迷迭香和金盏花结合起来可作为舒缓、愈合、驱跳蚤的

冲洗液。

=== PAGE 296 ===
Cautions and Comments: In horses, the volatile oils of rosemary may be detectable in a blood sample; is

possible that it may be considered a “prohibited substance” under Jocky Club or other horse show rules. Otherwise,

rosemary is a very safe herb.

注意事项和评论：对于马，血液样本中可能会检测到迷迭香的挥发油；根据赛马俱乐部或其他马术表演

规则，它可能被视为“违禁物质”。否则，迷迭香是一种非常安全的草药。

=== PAGE 297 ===
SAGE

智者

Salvia officinalis

丹参

Mint Family

薄荷家族

Appearance: Over eight hundred species of Salvia exist worldwide, and most are medicinally useful. Most

gardeners and Epicureans are familiar with S. officinalis, common garden sage. Many of the wild species share the

same unique “pebbled” leaf texture and have a similar but much stronger flavor and aroma. Flowers of the Salvia

genus range from white to deep purple. It’s important to know that many wild plants with a sagelike fragrance, or

even a common name that contains the word sage are unrelated to the sage we use in the kitchen. One example is

sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata), a member of the sunflower family that smells like sage but can be harmful if used

internally. Given the availability and effectiveness of culinary sage, there’s little reason to harvest wild sage for your

companion. If, however, you do opt to use a wild sage, learn its Latin name first. If the plant you are considering

isn’t a Salvia, then it’s a different medicine as well.

外观：全世界有超过八百种丹参，其中大多数具有药用价值。大多数园丁和伊壁鸠鲁主义者都熟悉药用鼠

尾草，一种常见的花园鼠尾草。许多野生物种都具有相同的独特“卵石”叶子纹理，并且具有相似但更强烈

的风味和香气。鼠尾草属的花朵从白色到深紫色。重要的是要知道，许多具有鼠尾草香味的野生植物，甚

至是包含鼠尾草一词的常见名称，都与我们在厨房中使用的鼠尾草无关。一个例子是山艾树（Artemisia

tridentata），它是向日葵科的一种，闻起来像鼠尾草，但如果内服可能有害。鉴于烹饪鼠尾草的可用性和有

效性，没有理由为您的伴侣收获野生鼠尾草。但是，如果您确实选择使用野生鼠尾草，请先了解它的拉丁

名称。如果您正在考虑的植物不是丹参，那么它也是一种不同的药物。

Habitat and Range: Common sage is a native of the Mediterranean region. Dozens of cultivars have been

developed and are farmed throughout the world.

栖息地和范围：普通鼠尾草原产于地中海地区。已开发出数十个品种并在世界各地种植。

In the coastal canyons of southern California, native species such as white sage (S. apiana), black sage (S.

mellifera), Munz’s sage (S. munzii), and purple sage (S. leucophylla) often stand as the predominant flora, growing

in dense stands of 2- to 6-foot-high shrubs that may cover the landscape for miles. As one travels north or east, the

distribution of Salvia species becomes more scattered and less varied, and the plants tend to be small and less

predominant. In the deserts of eastern Washington and Oregon, grayball sage (S. dorrii) brings the dry, brushy

landscape alive with vibrant hues of purple.

在南加州的沿海峡谷中，白鼠尾草 (S. apiana)、黑鼠尾草 (S. mellifera)、芒兹鼠尾草 (S. munzii) 和紫色鼠

尾草 (S. leucophylla) 等本地物种通常是主要植物群，生长在 2 至 6 英尺高的茂密灌木丛中，这些灌木丛可

能覆盖数英里的景观。当人们向北或向东旅行时，鼠尾草物种的分布变得更加分散且种类较少，而且植物

往往较小且不那么占优势。在华盛顿州东部和俄勒冈州的沙漠中，灰球鼠尾草 (S. dorrii) 为干燥、灌木丛生

的景观带来了生机勃勃的紫色色调。

=== PAGE 298 ===
Salvia leucophylla

白叶鼠尾草

Cycle and Bloom Season: Perennials that bloom in early to late spring

周期和开花季节：在早春至晚春开花的多年生植物

Parts Used: Leaves, small stems, and flowers

使用部分：叶、小茎和花

Primary Medicinal Activities: Antiseptic, astringent, antispasmodic, expels intestinal gas, inhibits sweating (is an

antihydrotic)

主要药用活性：抗菌、收敛、解痉、排出肠道气体、抑制出汗（是一种抗水药）

Strongest Affinities: Mouth, digestive tract, skin

最强的亲和力：口腔、消化道、皮肤

Preparation: Tea or tincture

准备：茶或酊剂

Common Uses: Sage is an excellent remedy for infections or ulcerations of the mouth, skin, or digestive tract. Most

of its antimicrobial activity is attributable to its content of thujone, a volatile oil that is effective against E. coli,

Shigella sonnei, Salmonella spp., Klebsiella ozanae, Bacillus subtillis, and various fungi—namely Candida

albicans, Candida krusei, Candida pseudotropicalis, Torulopsis glabrata , and Cryptococcus neoformans. A strong

=== PAGE 299 ===
sage tea or tincture is useful for treating and preventing gingivitis as well as infection that is secondary to injury or

dental surgery. For bacterial or fungal infections of the throat and digestive tract, sage serves as a safe and effective

antibiotic and helps to expel gas and ease gastric cramping. Horses and other large herbivores can be fed a handful

or two of the fresh leaves or a cup of dried leaves in their daily food ration as a treatment for colic and flatulence that

is secondary to bacterial or fungal infection. For smaller animals, the tea can be added to drinking water, or a

tincture can be administered directly by mouth. If you choose to make tea, steep 1 tablespoon of the dried leaves in a

cup of near-boiling water. Stir the mixture frequently until it has cooled to lukewarm. Strain out the plant material

but don’t discard it if you’re treating a localized infection or ulcer. It can be used as a poultice by directly applying it

to an affected area. The tea can be sweetened with honey (which has its own healing properties) and fed at a rate of 1

fluid ounce per 20 pounds of the animal’s body weight, two or three times daily. If you choose to use a tincture, a

good starting dose is 0.5–1.0 milliliter per 30 pounds of the animal’s body weight, twice daily.

常见用途：鼠尾草是治疗口腔、皮肤或消化道感染或溃疡的极好药物。其大部分抗菌活性归因于其侧柏酮

含量，侧柏酮是一种挥发油，可有效对抗大肠杆菌、宋内氏志贺氏菌、沙门氏菌、克雷伯氏菌、枯草芽孢

杆菌和各种真菌（即白色念珠菌、克柔念珠菌、拟热带念珠菌） 、光滑球拟酵母和新型隐球菌。浓鼠尾草

茶或酊剂可用于治疗和预防牙龈炎以及损伤或牙科手术继发的感染。对于喉咙和消化道的细菌或真菌感

染，鼠尾草是一种安全有效的抗生素，有助于排出气体并缓解胃痉挛。马和其他大型食草动物可以在日常

食物配给中喂食一把或两片新鲜叶子或一杯干叶子，以治疗继发于细菌或真菌感染的绞痛和胀气。对于较

小的动物，可以将茶添加到饮用水中，或者可以直接口服酊剂。如果您选择泡茶，请将一汤匙干茶叶浸泡

在一杯接近沸水中。经常搅拌混合物直至其冷却至微温。滤出植物材料，但如果您正在治疗局部感染或溃

疡，请不要丢弃它。它可以作为膏剂直接涂抹在患处。茶可以用蜂蜜（蜂蜜有其自身的治疗功效）加甜，

并以每 20 磅动物体重 1 液体盎司的比例喂食，每天 2 到 3 次。如果您选择使用酊剂，较好的起始剂量是每

30 磅动物体重 0.5–1.0 毫升，每天两次。

In the form of a rinse, poultice, or fomentation, sage tea is useful for treating bacterial or fungal infections of the

skin, including ringworm. In such instances, thoroughly soak your companion with the cooled tea once or twice

daily. The tea is also a safe and natural disinfectant for turtle or lizard enclosures and may be combined with liquid

soap for use as a hand wash after handling animals who may carry salmonella.

鼠尾草茶以冲洗剂、膏剂或热敷的形式可用于治疗皮肤的细菌或真菌感染，包括癣。在这种情况下，每

天用冷茶彻底浸泡你的伴侣一到两次。该茶也是一种安全、天然的乌龟或蜥蜴饲养场消毒剂，在处理可能

携带沙门氏菌的动物后，可以与液体肥皂混合用作洗手液。

Availability: Fresh or dried sage is available at food stores. The plants are available at most nurseries.

可获得性：新鲜或干燥的鼠尾草可在食品店购买。大多数苗圃都有这些植物。

Propagation and Harvest: Sage is an easy-to-grow “must have” for the home herb gardener. It likes heavy, slightly

acid soil and full sun. It is drought resistant and winter hardy, but in regions where temperatures reach below–10° F,

a thick fall mulch is required. Collect the leaves and small stems during midday, when the volatile oils are most

concentrated in the leaves, and preferably when the plants are just beginning to bloom. The best way to dry sage is

to tie the leaves into small bundles and hang them indoors. When the leaves are crunchy dry, they are ready to store

in an airtight glass jar away from sunlight. Properly stored, the herb keeps for two or three years—as long as it

smells strong, it’s still good medicine.

繁殖和收获：鼠尾草是家庭药草园丁易于种植的“必备品”。它喜欢粘重、微酸性的土壤和充足的阳光。它

抗旱、耐寒，但在气温低于华氏 10 度的地区，需要厚厚的秋季覆盖物。在中午收集叶子和小茎，此时挥发

油在叶子中最集中，最好是在植物刚刚开始开花时。干燥鼠尾草的最佳方法是将叶子扎成小捆，然后挂在

室内。当叶子变脆干燥时，就可以将它们存放在密封的玻璃罐中，避免阳光照射。如果储存得当，这种药

草可以保存两三年——只要气味浓烈，它仍然是良药。

Alternatives and Adjuncts: For mouth infections, thyme, rosemary, and bee balm are also effective, and consider

Oregon grape and myrrh as strong adjuncts or alternatives. For digestive problems, sage combines with Oregon

grape, licorice, fennel, parsley, dill, or marshmallow. For infections of the skin, calendula, aloe, chaparral,

chamomile, rosemary, and uva ursi all deserve some study.

=== PAGE 300 ===
替代品和辅助剂：对于口腔感染，百里香、迷迭香和蜂香膏也有效，并考虑俄勒冈葡萄和没药作为强效辅

助剂或替代品。对于消化问题，鼠尾草与俄勒冈葡萄、甘草、茴香、欧芹、莳萝或棉花糖混合。对于皮肤

感染，金盏花、芦荟、灌木丛、洋甘菊、迷迭香和熊果都值得研究。

Cautions and Comments: The undiluted essential oil of sage can cause skin irritation and should not be given

internally. Sage is said to inhibit lactation.

注意事项和评论：未稀释的鼠尾草精油会引起皮肤刺激，不应内服。据说鼠尾草可以抑制泌乳。

=== PAGE 301 ===
SAINT-JOHN’S-WORT

圣约翰草

Hypericum perforatum

贯叶金丝桃

Saint-John’s-Wort Family

圣约翰草家族

Appearance: Saint-John’s-wort is a sturdy perennial weed distinguished by its yellow five-petaled flowers and its

small (up to ¾ inch long) narrowly lance-shaped to elliptical leaves. The flowers and leaves are covered with tiny

purplish black dots, each containing hypericin, a medicinally active compound that is often visible as a red stain on

the skin after rubbing the foliage between one’s fingertips. Saint-John’s-wort varies in size among species, but all of

them are similar in appearance. The largest and most widespread species, Hypericum perforatum , may reach 32

inches in height, whereas H. anagalloides (bog Saint-John’s-wort), one of the smallest species, grows in mats

seldom exceeding 4 inches in height.

外观：圣约翰草是一种坚固的多年生杂草，其特征在于其黄色五瓣花和小（长达 3/4 英寸长）狭长矛形至椭

圆形的叶子。花朵和叶子上覆盖着微小的紫黑色点，每个点都含有金丝桃素，这是一种具有药用活性的化

合物，用指尖摩擦叶子后，通常可以在皮肤上看到红色斑点。圣约翰草的大小因品种而异，但外观相似。

最大、分布最广的物种贯叶金丝桃 (Hypericum perforatum) 高度可达 32 英寸，而 H. anagalloides (bog Saint-

John’s-wort) 是最小的物种之一，生长在高度很少超过 4 英寸的垫子中。

Habitat and Range: Habitat varies according to species, but generally the larger species prefer dry to moist open

hillsides up to about 6,000 feet in elevation, whereas higher elevations and wetter habitats tend to yield the smaller

species. In the Pacific Northwest, H. perforatum and H. formosum are common and often profuse on open range

lands at foothill elevations, where they are considered noxious weeds because of their alleged toxicity to livestock.

Saint-John’s-wort is a European import that now ranges throughout the Pacific and Rocky Mountain states and in

isolated stands through the central and eastern portions of North America.

栖息地和范围：栖息地因物种而异，但一般较大的物种更喜欢海拔约 6,000 英尺的干燥或潮湿的开阔山坡，

而较高的海拔和潮湿的栖息地往往会产生较小的物种。在太平洋西北地区，贯叶连翘和台湾连翘很常见，

并且经常大量生长在山麓海拔的开阔土地上，由于据称它们对牲畜有毒，因此被认为是有毒杂草。圣约翰

草是从欧洲进口的，现在遍布太平洋和落基山脉各州，并在北美中部和东部地区有孤立的分布。

Cycle and Bloom Season: A perennial that is sometimes referred to as Fourth of July flower, Saint-John’s-wort

usually blooms from early July through August.

周期和开花季节：圣约翰草是一种多年生植物，有时被称为国庆节花，通常从七月初到八月开花。

=== PAGE 302 ===
Hypericum perforatum

贯叶金丝桃

Parts Used: The top 12 inches of the flowering plant

使用部位：开花植物顶部 12 英寸

Primary Medicinal Activities: Wound healing, moderates nerve transmissions (nervine), antiseptic, antiviral,

antidepressive, immunostimulant.

主要药用活性：伤口愈合、调节神经传递（神经）、防腐剂、抗病毒、抗抑郁、免疫刺激。

Strongest Affinities: Nervous system, skin

最强的亲和力：神经系统、皮肤

Preparation: Tea, tincture, or topical preparation of the fresh herb

制剂：茶、酊剂或新鲜草药的外用制剂

Common Uses: It’s amazing how our opinions can change by simply looking closer at what we take for granted.

Saint-John’s-wort has long been regarded as an invasive weed in the western portions of the U.S. Until recently,

people wanted to eradicate this plant from the range lands on which it so successfully flourishes, competes with

native plants, and threatens grazing livestock with possible toxic side effects. But now, in light of extensive

scientific research, Saint-John’s-wort has been promoted from the status of a universally hated weed to that of a

valued medicine that offers a wealth of curative power. Our awareness of Saint-John’s-wort’s benefits comes in the

midst of an enormous health care crisis and forces us to reevaluate our shortsighted approaches to plants we

ignorantly view as our enemies. As well as giving us a valuable opportunity to reconsider the true values in our

=== PAGE 303 ===
surroundings, Saint-John’s-wort offers new hope in the treatment of AIDS, chronic depression, nervous system

disorders, and various forms of herpes virus. A plant is seen as a weed only when we cannot recognize its useful

purpose. Because of the lesson we’ve learned from Saint-John’s-wort, we are forced to wonder about the usefulness

of all plants and to consider the price we may be paying when we choose to eradicate certain plants in favor of

agricultural economics.

常见用途：令人惊奇的是，只要仔细观察我们认为理所当然的事情，我们的观点就能改变。圣约翰草长期

以来一直被认为是美国西部地区的一种入侵杂草。直到最近，人们还想将这种植物从牧场上根除，这种植

物在其上成功繁盛，与本地植物竞争，并威胁到放牧牲畜。可能的毒副作用。但现在，根据广泛的科学研

究，圣约翰草已经从一种普遍讨厌的杂草提升为一种具有丰富疗效的有价值的药物。我们对圣约翰草益处

的认识是在一场巨大的医疗保健危机中产生的，这迫使我们重新评估我们对植物的短视做法，我们无知地

将其视为我们的敌人。圣约翰草不仅为我们提供了重新考虑周围环境的真正价值观的宝贵机会，还为治疗

艾滋病、慢性抑郁症、神经系统疾病和各种形式的疱疹病毒提供了新的希望。只有当我们无法认识植物的

有用用途时，才会将其视为杂草。由于我们从圣约翰草中学到的教训，我们被迫思考所有植物的有用性，

并考虑当我们选择根除某些植物以支持农业经济时我们可能付出的代价。

Saint-John’s-wort has received a great deal of media attention for its demonstrated ability to act as an

antidepressant in both humans and animals. Literally hundreds of recent scientific studies have confirmed that it may

act as a safe, effective, and natural alternative to antidepressant drugs. In Germany and other European countries,

where the most research is being conducted on Saint-John’s-wort and its derivatives, the plant has been deemed safe

and effective by the government, and millions of people are using the plant daily to treat chronic depression without

ill side effects. In fact, one pharmaceutical brand of Saint-John’s-wort is being prescribed in Germany at a rate of

seven to one over the popular antidepressant drug Prozac. And in the U.S., an increasing number of holistic

veterinarians are using the herb to treat separation anxiety and aggression disorders in dogs and cats. Contrary to

popular belief, however, Saint-John’s-wort does not offer a neatly packaged holistic solution to depressive disorders,

especially not for animals.

圣约翰草因其在人类和动物中表现出的抗抑郁作用而受到了媒体的广泛关注。最近数百项科学研究已经

证实，它可以作为抗抑郁药物的安全、有效和天然的替代品。在德国和其他欧洲国家，大多数研究都是针

对圣约翰草及其衍生物进行的，政府认为这种植物是安全有效的，数百万人每天都在使用这种植物来治疗

慢性抑郁症，而无需担心。不良的副作用。事实上，在德国，圣约翰草的一种制药品牌的处方比例是流行

的抗抑郁药物百忧解的七比一。在美国，越来越多的整体兽医正在使用这种草药来治疗狗和猫的分离焦虑

和攻击性障碍。然而，与普遍看法相反，圣约翰草并没有为抑郁症提供整齐包装的整体解决方案，尤其是

对动物而言。

The antidepressive qualities of Saint-John’s-wort represent only a small portion of what this plant has to offer.

Saint-John’s-wort also has antiviral, vulnerary (wound and burn healing), nerve tonic, and antibacterial activities

that are unparalleled by any other herb. And while a great deal of research and marketing has been focused on the

hypericin constituents (a red pigment contained within tiny glands that dot the flower petals and leaves of the plant)

of Saint-John’s-wort, this herb contains dozens of other chemical compounds that have been shown to possess a

tremendous range of healing actions. These compounds include various essential oils, flavonoids, tannins, and

phytosterol constituents—all of which combine to make Saint-John’s-wort active against a wide variety of bacteria,

fungi, and even viruses.

圣约翰草的抗抑郁功效仅代表该植物所提供的一小部分。圣约翰草还具有任何其他草药无法比拟的抗病

毒、治疗创伤（伤口和烧伤）、神经滋补和抗菌活性。虽然大量的研究和营销都集中在圣约翰草的金丝桃

素成分（植物花瓣和叶子上的微小腺体中含有的一种红色素）上，但这种草药还含有数十种其他化学物质

已被证明具有广泛的治疗作用。这些化合物包括各种精油、类黄酮、单宁和植物甾醇成分，所有这些成分

结合在一起，使圣约翰草能够有效对抗多种细菌、真菌，甚至病毒。

For the treatment of burns and wounds, Saint-John’s-wort helps speed the healing process while reducing pain at

the site of injury. As an antibiotic, preparations of Saint-John’s-wort extract have been shown to be as effective as

many of their pharmaceutical counterparts, including sulfonamides, a group of general-use antibiotics commonly

prescribed for treatment of bacterial infections in dogs, cats, horses, and a wide variety of other animals. Saint-

John’s-wort is especially useful in instances where soft tissues, joints, or nerve endings have been crushed, crimped,

or bruised, a condition that may occur when a cattle dog is stomped or kicked or when a cat expends another of her

nine lives in a run-in with an automobile. For first aid purposes, Saint-John’s-wort can be applied directly to the site

of injury in the form of a salve, a tincture, or an oil infusion, or the tincture can be administered internally. We

=== PAGE 304 ===
would probably opt to do both in the described circumstances as the topical application helps to prevent infection

and speed healing, while the phytosterol and flavonoid constituents of the internal dose help with nerve pain and

repair. Giving 12 drops of the tincture per 20 pounds of the animal’s body weight, administered twice daily, is a

good starting point in terms of internal dosage.

对于烧伤和伤口的治疗，圣约翰草有助于加速愈合过程，同时减轻受伤部位的疼痛。作为一种抗生素，

圣约翰草提取物制剂已被证明与许多同类药物一样有效，包括磺胺类药物，这是一组通用抗生素，通常用

于治疗狗、猫、马、以及各种各样的其他动物。圣约翰草在软组织、关节或神经末梢被压碎、卷曲或瘀伤

的情况下特别有用，这种情况可能发生在牧牛犬被踩踏或踢打，或者猫消耗了另外九分之一的时间时。与

汽车发生冲突。出于急救目的，圣约翰草可以以药膏、酊剂或输油剂的形式直接涂抹在受伤部位，也可以

将酊剂内服。在所描述的情况下，我们可能会选择同时使用这两种方法，因为局部应用有助于预防感染和

加速愈合，而内部剂量的植物甾醇和类黄酮成分有助于缓解神经疼痛和修复。就内部剂量而言，每 20 磅动

物体重滴 12 滴酊剂，每天两次，是一个很好的起点。

Saint-John’s-wort offers a great deal of promise in the treatment of various forms of viral and retroviral infections,

including AIDS, FIV, Epstein-Barr virus, influenza, herpes, and viral hepatitis (particularly in ducks and other fowl).

In essence, Saint-John’s-wort inhibits reproduction of these viruses, especially if the herb is administered during the

earliest stages of disease. In AIDS research, the hope is that Saint-John’s-wort will prove to slow the progression of

the HIV virus. So far studies have been promising, but it’s too early to define the depth of Saint-John’s-wort’s role

in this capacity. Regardless, its use in fighting human or feline AIDS is worth a serious try.

圣约翰草在治疗各种形式的病毒和逆转录病毒感染方面具有巨大的前景，包括艾滋病、FIV、EB 病毒、

流感、疱疹和病毒性肝炎（特别是鸭和其他家禽）。从本质上讲，圣约翰草可以抑制这些病毒的繁殖，特

别是在疾病的早期阶段服用该草药。在艾滋病研究中，人们希望圣约翰草能够减缓艾滋病病毒的传播。到

目前为止，研究一直很有希望，但现在定义圣约翰草在这种能力中的作用还为时过早。无论如何，它在对

抗人类或猫艾滋病方面的用途值得认真尝试。

Saint-John’s-wort extract may be effective as a preventive measure in dogs who have been exposed to a

potentially fatal canine herpes viral infection or in cats, horses, or other animals suffering from a herpes virus. The

point to remember is that Saint-John’s-wort will not cure the animal of herpes, but it may help keep the virus in

check. In our experience with people who suffer from herpes, simultaneous internal and external applications of

Saint-John’s-wort extract expedites remission of the virus and often helps to lengthen the comfortable period

between outbreaks.

圣约翰草提取物对于接触过可能致命的犬疱疹病毒感染的狗或患有疱疹病毒的猫、马或其他动物可能是

有效的预防措施。需要记住的一点是，圣约翰草不能治愈动物的疱疹，但它可能有助于控制病毒。根据我

们对疱疹患者的经验，同时内服和外用圣约翰草提取物可以加速病毒的缓解，并且通常有助于延长两次爆

发之间的舒适期。

Availability: Saint-John’s-wort is a widely distributed weed in the western U.S. Seeds are available from specialty

seed catalogs. The dried herb and its various preparations are available through herb retailers.

可用性：圣约翰草是美国西部广泛分布的杂草。种子可从专业种子目录中获得。干药草及其各种制剂可通

过药草零售商购买。

Propagation and Harvest: Saint-John’s-wort is easy to transplant or start from seed, but before you plant it, be

aware that it is listed as a harmful weed in many areas of the country. If you introduce this plant into your herb

garden, be careful that it doesn’t escape cultivation. Harvest when the plants are in full bloom, usually in early to

mid-July. Clip off the flowering tops, and plan on making tincture or an oil infusion as quickly after harvest as

possible—this plant is most effective if made into medicine while it is fresh.

繁殖和收获：圣约翰草很容易移植或从种子开始，但在种植之前，请注意它在该国许多地区被列为有害杂

草。如果您将这种植物引入您的药草园，请小心不要让它逃脱栽培。在植物盛开时收获，通常在七月上旬

至中旬。剪掉开花的顶部，并计划在收获后尽快制作酊剂或油浸剂——这种植物如果在新鲜时入药是最有

效的。

=== PAGE 305 ===
Alternatives and Adjuncts: For anxiety and depressive disorders, lemon balm, skullcap, valerian, and

passionflower serve as adjuncts or alternatives. For injuries, Saint-John’s-wort combines well with comfrey,

calendula, aloe, cayenne, yarrow, or arnica. Licorice, devil’s claw, or yucca root all serve as anti-inflammatory

adjuncts. Consider oatstraw, skullcap, cayenne, and valerian as possible alternatives or adjuncts for nerve-related

problems. As an antiviral or antiseptic, Saint-John’s-wort combines with echinacea, Oregon grape, certified organic

goldenseal, bee balm, thyme, or sage.

替代品和辅助品：对于焦虑症和抑郁症，蜂蜜花、黄芩、缬草和西番莲可作为辅助剂或替代品。对于损

伤，圣约翰草与紫草、金盏花、芦荟、辣椒、西洋蓍草或山金车可以很好地结合。甘草、魔爪草或丝兰根

都可以作为抗炎辅助剂。考虑将燕麦草、黄芩、辣椒和缬草作为治疗神经相关问题的可能替代品或辅助

品。作为一种抗病毒剂或防腐剂，圣约翰草与紫锥菊、俄勒冈葡萄、经过认证的有机金毛茛、蜂香膏、百

里香或鼠尾草相结合。

Cautions and Comments: Recent scientific studies have taught us that this herb may strengthen the effects of

general anesthesia. Therefore, Saint-John’s-wort should not be used within 48 hours preceding surgery. While other

adverse side effects are rare, some animals can develop a photosensitive rash from its use. Specifically, people or

animals with light skin pigments may be susceptible to sunburnlike effects if they consume too much Saint-John’s-

wort and subsequently spend too much time in bright sunlight. This side effect has been observed in livestock who

have foraged on large quantities of the plants and is one of the main reasons Saint-John’s-wort is the subject of

herbicidal intervention in some areas of the West. Common sense should preside here—use extra caution if your

animal has white hair, white or pink skin pigment, or a short coat. If a rash does develop, get the animal out of direct

sunlight and discontinue use of Saint-John’s-wort. Consider finding an alternative therapy—it may be that your

animal is not a proper candidate for Saint-John’s-wort. As always, it is a good idea to consult a holistic veterinarian

before diagnosing your pet’s condition and self-prescribing any course of therapy.

注意事项和评论：最近的科学研究告诉我们，这种草药可能会增强全身麻醉的效果。因此，术前 48 小时内

不应使用圣约翰草。虽然其他不良副作用很少见，但一些动物可能会因使用而出现光敏性皮疹。具体来

说，如果皮肤色素浅的人或动物食用过多的圣约翰草并随后在明亮的阳光下度过过多的时间，可能会容易

受到晒伤的影响。在大量采食圣约翰草的牲畜中观察到了这种副作用，这也是圣约翰草在西方某些地区受

到除草干预的主要原因之一。这里应以常识为主——如果您的动物有白毛、白色或粉红色皮肤色素或短

毛，请格外小心。如果确实出现皮疹，请让动物远离阳光直射，并停止使用圣约翰草。考虑寻找替代疗法

——您的动物可能不适合使用圣约翰草。与往常一样，在诊断您的宠物的病情并自行制定任何治疗方案之

前，最好先咨询整体兽医。

=== PAGE 306 ===
SHEPHERD’S PURSE

荠菜

Capsella bursa-pastoris

荠菜

Mustard Family

芥末家族

Appearance: Shepherd’s purse is a common lawn and vacant lot weed that begins its life as a ground-hugging

rosette of 1- to 2-inch leaves that are hairy underneath and smooth on top. Later, the upper plant develops one or

more slender, erect stems that can grow to about 20 inches tall. The lance-shaped leaves of the upper plant grow

alternately, clasping the stem at their bases.

外观：荠菜是一种常见的草坪和空地杂草，它的生命开始时是1到2英寸叶子的贴地莲座丛，叶子下面有

毛，上面光滑。随后，上部植物长出一根或多根细长、直立的茎，可长至约 20 英寸高。上部植物的矛状叶

子交替生长，基部紧握茎。

Small, white, inconspicuous flowers are presented at the top of the plant. The flowers develop into seed-bearing

capsules that look like tiny (½ inch or smaller), pointed heart-shaped purses—a characteristic that likely earned the

plant its common name. These little purses are two-celled, have a single ridge along one side, and are slightly

concave along the other. Each cell contains tiny seeds.

植物顶部开有白色、不显眼的小花。这些花发育成含有种子的蒴果，看起来像微小（½英寸或更小）的尖

心形钱包——这一特征可能为这种植物赢得了俗名。这些小钱包有两个单元，一侧有一个脊，另一侧稍微

凹入。每个细胞都含有微小的种子。

Many herbalists take the purse characteristics of shepherd’s purse for granted and don’t look closely enough when

identifying the plant before harvesting. Subsequently, many of them end up gathering and using the wrong plant.

Although the impostor is usually another harmless member of the mustard family (Cruciferae), it is often

medicinally useless. The seed capsules of the look-alikes have two cells, but each cell contains only two seeds,

whereas shepherd’s purse always has several seeds.

许多草药师认为荠菜的钱包特征是理所当然的，在收获前识别植物时没有仔细观察。随后，他们中的许

多人最终采集并使用了错误的植物。尽管冒名顶替者通常是芥菜科（十字花科）的另一种无害成员，但它

通常没有药用价值。相似的种子蒴果有两个细胞，但每个细胞只含有两粒种子，而荠菜总是有几粒种子。

Habitat and Range: Shepherd’s purse is a European import that is widely distributed across North America. It is

common in cultivated fields, gardens, lawns, vacant lots, livestock grazing areas, and other disturbed areas. It can be

found in almost any environment, from cracks in city streets to remote mountain campsites. It is adaptable to any

elevation from below sea level to timberline.

栖息地和分布范围：荠菜是欧洲进口的植物，广泛分布于北美各地。它常见于耕地、花园、草坪、空地、

牲畜放牧区和其他受干扰的地区。它几乎可以在任何环境中找到，从城市街道的裂缝到偏远的山区露营

地。它适用于从海平面以下到林线的任何海拔。

Cycle and Bloom Season: An annual that continuously reseeds itself

周期和开花季节：不断自我重新播种的一年生植物

Parts Used: Entire plant, including roots

=== PAGE 307 ===
使用部分：整个植物，包括根

Primary Medicinal Activities: Diuretic, astringent, stops bleeding, tonic

主要药用活性： 利尿、收敛、止血、滋补

Strongest Affinities: Urinary tract, joints

最强的亲和力：泌尿道、关节

Preparation: Tea, tincture, fresh or dried herb

制剂：茶、酊剂、新鲜或干草药

Common Uses: Shepherd’s purse is especially useful in cases of minor urinary system bleeding. The diuretic

activity of this plant is strong enough to increase urinary volume and thus lower the concentration of acidic strong,

dark urine, while its mild astringency helps to reduce inflammation in the bladder, urethra, and kidneys. Although it

is a relatively weak diuretic, its low volatile oil content makes it a gentle alternative to oil-rich herbs such as parsley

root, which are contraindicated in preexisting cases of kidney disease. Shepherd’s purse is indicated for arthritic

conditions that are believed to be compounded by retention of excess systemic waste materials, where it is believed

to help with the removal of fluid and various acid compounds from the joints.

常见用途：荠菜对于泌尿系统轻微出血特别有用。这种植物的利尿活性足够强，可以增加尿量，从而降低

酸性强、深色尿液的浓度，而其温和的收敛性有助于减少膀胱、尿道和肾脏的炎症。虽然它是一种相对较

弱的利尿剂，但其挥发油含量较低，使其成为欧芹根等富含油的草药的温和替代品，而欧芹根在已有肾脏

疾病的情况下是禁忌的。荠菜适用于治疗关节炎，这种疾病被认为是由于体内多余的废物滞留而加剧的，

据信它有助于清除关节中的液体和各种酸性化合物。

Studies have shown that the hemostatic activity of shepherd’s purse in the uterus and urinary tract is attributable

to more than just simple tissue-shrinking astringency. The plant contains an assortment of amine and flavonoid

constituents that are believed to actually strengthen capillaries and reduce their permeability. This makes shepherd’s

purse an excellent urinary tonic for animals who exhibit occasional blood in the urine as a result of structural

anomalies, scar tissue, or nonspecific atony of the bladder. It has also been found to enhance uterine tone, contract

the uterine walls, and lower blood pressure, making it useful in postpartum bleeding and difficult placenta delivery.

研究表明，荠菜在子宫和泌尿道中的止血活性不仅仅归因于简单的组织收缩收敛作用。该植物含有多种

胺和类黄酮成分，据信这些成分实际上可以增强毛细血管并降低其渗透性。对于因结构异常、疤痕组织或

非特异性膀胱无力而偶尔出现尿血的动物来说，荠菜是一种极好的泌尿补品。它还被发现可以增强子宫张

力、收缩子宫壁并降低血压，从而有助于治疗产后出血和胎盘难产。

Externally, a poultice of the fresh plant can be applied to wounds to stop bleeding. A tincture, poultice, or water

or oil infusion can be applied to the skin, as a weak alternative to mustard, to increase subcutaneous capillary

circulation at the site of closed-tissue injuries and to help improve the strength and structure of capillaries.

在外部，可以将新鲜植物的药膏涂在伤口上以止血。可以将酊剂、膏剂或水或油浸剂涂抹在皮肤上，作

为芥末的弱替代品，以增加闭合组织损伤部位的皮下毛细血管循环，并帮助改善毛细血管的强度和结构。

Availability: A widespread weed; available through specialty seed catalogs

可用性：广泛分布的杂草；可通过专业种子目录获得

Propagation and Harvest: Rather than buy dried shepherd’s purse at an herb store, it’s best to harvest your own

fresh herb. The herb loses much of its medicinal potency when it dries and should be used or made into tincture as

soon as it is harvested. This plant is easy to grow and spreads all over the garden if allowed. It grows in most soils

but grows best in heavily manured soil, which is why it is so common in pastures. Harvest by pulling up the entire

=== PAGE 308 ===
plant after the seed capsules have developed but before the plant dries.

繁殖和收获：最好自己采摘新鲜的药草，而不是在药草店购买干荠菜。这种草药在干燥后会失去大部分药

效，因此应在收获后立即使用或制成酊剂。这种植物很容易生长，如果允许的话可以遍布整个花园。它可

以在大多数土壤中生长，但在施肥较多的土壤中生长最好，这就是为什么它在牧场上如此常见。在种子蒴

果发育后但在植物干燥之前拔起整个植物来收获。

Capsella bursa-pastoris

荠菜

Alternatives and Adjuncts: Shepherd’s purse can be combined with yarrow in fresh herb tea for bleeding fibroids

or as an external first aid remedy (use the two herbs in a poultice). For arthritis, shepherd’s purse combines with

yucca root, boswellia, devil’s claw, licorice, or alfalfa. Dandelion leaf serves as a stronger, yet equally safe, diuretic.

For urinary bleeding that is secondary to infection, combine with marshmallow, echinacea, and Oregon grape.

替代品和辅助品：荠菜可以与西洋蓍草混合在新鲜花草茶中治疗子宫肌瘤出血或作为外用急救药物（将两

种草药制成膏剂）。对于关节炎，荠菜与丝兰根、乳香、魔爪草、甘草或苜蓿结合使用。蒲公英叶是一种

更强效但同样安全的利尿剂。对于继发于感染的尿道出血，可与棉花糖、紫锥菊和俄勒冈葡萄混合使用。

Cautions and Comments: The authors have never witnessed any side effects from the use of this herb, but it has

been theorized by others that Shepherd’s purse can cause contractions of the uterus and should not be administered

to pregnant animals—reserve it for the postpartum period. It is also thought to have hemostatic properties that may

interfere with blood-thinning drugs. Therefore, caution and common sense dictates that this herb is best avoided in

animals with clotting disorders.

注意事项和评论：作者从未见过使用这种草药的任何副作用，但其他人提出的理论是荠菜会导致子宫收

缩，不应该给怀孕的动物服用——保留在产后时期。人们还认为它具有止血特性，可能会干扰血液稀释药

物。因此，谨慎和常识表明，最好避免在患有凝血障碍的动物中使用这种草药。

=== PAGE 309 ===
SKULLCAP

骷髅帽

Scutellaria lateriflora

黄芩

Mint Family

薄荷家族

Appearance: Skullcap is differentiated from other mints by its blue or white flowers, which are borne (in most

species) at the top third of the plant in symmetrically arranged sets of two or more. The flowers are two lobed and

tubular; one lobe forms an upper lip, and one forms a larger apronlike lower lip. The lance-shaped, finely to coarsely

toothed leaves oppose one another, as in all mints. Like most mints, skullcap has distinctly four-sided stems.

外观：黄芩与其他薄荷的区别在于其蓝色或白色的花朵，这些花朵（在大多数物种中）以对称排列的两朵

或两朵以上的形式出现在植物的顶部三分之一处。花是二裂的和管状的；一个叶形成上唇，一个叶形成较

大的围裙状下唇。与所有薄荷糖一样，矛状、细齿到粗齿的叶子彼此相对。与大多数薄荷糖一样，黄芩有

明显的四边茎。

Habitat and Range: Several native species of skullcap grow in North America, most of which live in moist

meadows, seeps from springs, and riparian thickets. Scutellaria lateriflora and several other cultivars are grown

throughout the world.

栖息地和分布范围：北美有几种本土黄芩物种，其中大多数生活在潮湿的草地、泉水渗水和河岸灌木丛

中。黄芩和其他几个品种在世界各地都有种植。

Cycle and Bloom Season: An annual or perennial (depending on species and climate) that blooms from June to

August

周期和开花季节：一年生或多年生植物（取决于物种和气候），从六月到八月开花

Parts Used: Leaves, stems, and flowers

使用部位：叶、茎、花

Primary Medicinal Activities: Moderates nerve transmissions, sedative, antispasmodic, anticonvulsant

主要药用活性：调节神经传导、镇静、解痉、抗惊厥

Strongest Affinities: Nervous system

最强的亲和力：神经系统

Preparation: Tea, tincture, dried or fresh herb

制剂：茶、酊剂、干或新鲜药草

Common Uses: For centuries, herbalists have recognized skullcap as one of the most effective herbal nervines

=== PAGE 310 ===
available. It is commonly used for acute or chronic cases of nervous tension or anxiety and to help relieve pain from

nerve-related injury or disease. Historically, it has been used to treat convulsions, epilepsy, multiple sclerosis,

hysteria, and delirium tremens, which is shaking and delirium associated with withdrawals from alcohol (also called

d.t.’s). Scutellaria lateriflora is still known by many people as “mad dog weed” from its use in the eighteenth

century as a cure for rabies. Yet despite its rich history and current popularity among herbalists, very little scientific

study has been focused on this plant. From the studies that have been conducted, we have learned that the chemistry

of skullcap varies considerably between species, although all species that are marketed and used as herbal medicine

contain scutellarin, a flavonoid compound that has been shown to possess sedative and antispasmodic qualities.

常见用途：几个世纪以来，草药学家一直认为黄芩是最有效的草药神经元之一。它通常用于治疗急性或慢

性神经紧张或焦虑，并有助于缓解神经相关损伤或疾病引起的疼痛。历史上，它曾被用于治疗惊厥、癫

痫、多发性硬化症、癔症和震颤性谵妄，即与戒酒有关的颤抖和谵妄（也称为 d.t.'s）。黄芩至今仍被许多

人称为“疯狗草”，因为它在十八世纪被用来治疗狂犬病。然而，尽管它有着丰富的历史并且目前在草药学

家中很受欢迎，但很少有科学研究关注这种植物。从已经进行的研究中，我们了解到黄芩的化学成分在物

种之间存在很大差异，尽管所有作为草药销售和使用的物种都含有灯盏花乙素，这是一种黄酮类化合物，

已被证明具有镇静和抗痉挛的功效。

We find skullcap especially effective for general nervousness and excitability in dogs and cats and for any

condition characterized by oversensitivity of the peripheral nerves. It helps relieve nervous tension related to pain or

a traumatic experience, and it is useful as an antispasmodic in nervous irritations of the cerebrospinal system such as

sciatica or posttraumatic neuralgia.

我们发现黄芩对于狗和猫的一般紧张和兴奋以及任何以周围神经过度敏感为特征的疾病特别有效。它有

助于缓解与疼痛或创伤经历相关的神经紧张，并且可用作脑脊髓系统神经刺激（如坐骨神经痛或创伤后神

经痛）的解痉药。

Unlike valerian and other herbal sedatives, skullcap by itself does not bring about drowsiness, nor does it dull the

reflexes or interfere with motor coordination. Instead, skullcap acts to moderate an animal’s responsiveness to

physical or nonphysical stimuli and helps to alleviate general restlessness and nervous twitching. This makes it

suitable for highstrung felines who are recovering from a frightful experience but who need all of their survival

mechanisms intact during their daily outdoor adventures.

与缬草和其他草药镇静剂不同，黄芩本身不会导致困倦，也不会使反应迟钝或干扰运动协调。相反，黄

芩可以调节动物对物理或非物理刺激的反应，并有助于缓解普遍的不安和神经抽搐。这使得它适合高度紧

张的猫科动物，这些猫科动物正在从可怕的经历中恢复过来，但在日常户外探险中需要保持所有生存机制

完好无损。

Herbalists consider skullcap a specific remedy for grand mal epileptic seizures. We have received several

encouraging reports from people who are using skullcap to reduce the severity and frequency of seizures in their

epileptic dogs, especially when the herb is combined in equal parts with valerian. Science has not yet revealed

exactly how skullcap works in this capacity, but herbalists theorize that it may calm nerve impulses throughout the

body, while inhibiting activity in higher brain centers where epileptic seizures might be triggered. Skullcap’s

effectiveness in moderating epileptic episodes may explain its traditional reputation as a cure for rabies: back in the

eighteenth century, little was known about epilepsy, and it’s likely that many epilepsy sufferers were misdiagnosed

as having rabies.

草药学家认为黄芩是治疗癫痫大发作的特效药物。我们收到了一些令人鼓舞的报告，这些报告来自人

们，他们使用黄芩来降低癫痫犬癫痫发作的严重程度和频率，特别是当这种草药与缬草等量混合时。科学

尚未确切揭示黄芩如何发挥这种作用，但草药学家推测，它可以平息全身的神经冲动，同时抑制可能引发

癫痫发作的高级大脑中心的活动。黄芩在缓解癫痫发作方面的功效可能解释了它作为治疗狂犬病的传统疗

法的声誉：早在十八世纪，人们对癫痫病知之甚少，许多癫痫患者很可能被误诊为患有狂犬病。

For epileptic dogs, 0.5 to 1 milliliter of a low-alcohol tincture can be fed two or three times daily, but see your

holistic veterinarian for a thorough workup of your companion before proceeding. For generalized nervousness or to

help relieve pain in dogs and cats, 0.5 milliliter per 20 pounds of the animal’s weight can be fed as needed, up to

three times daily for up to a week. It’s important to remember, though, that skullcap and other herbal sedatives can

only relieve the symptoms of such disorders; they cannot address the underlying causes. For nervousness in a horse,

mule, or goat, ½–1 ounce of the dried herb can be added to the animal’s feed once per day, as needed.

对于癫痫犬，每天可以喂食 2 到 3 次 0.5 至 1 毫升的低酒精酊剂，但在继续之前请咨询您的整体兽医，对

=== PAGE 311 ===
您的伴侣进行彻底检查。对于全身性紧张或帮助缓解狗和猫的疼痛，可以根据需要每 20 磅动物体重喂食

0.5 毫升，每天最多 3 次，持续一周。但重要的是要记住，黄芩和其他草药镇静剂只能缓解此类疾病的症

状。他们无法解决根本原因。对于马、骡子或山羊的紧张情绪，可以根据需要每天一次将 1/2-1 盎司的干草

药添加到动物饲料中。

A study in 1957 showed that skullcap can prevent a rise in serum cholesterol in animals on a high-cholesterol diet,

which means that the herb might be useful as a dietary adjunct in animals, such as miniature schnauzers and beagles,

who are predisposed to hyperlipidemia.

1957 年的一项研究表明，黄芩可以防止高胆固醇饮食动物血清胆固醇升高，这意味着该草药可能可用作

动物的饮食辅助剂，例如容易患高脂血症的小型雪纳瑞和比格犬。

Scutellaria lateriflora

黄芩

Availability: Skullcap can be purchased through herb retailers in dried herb form or tinctures. The plants are

available through nurseries that specialize in herbs.

可用性：黄芩可以通过草药零售商以干草药形式或酊剂购买。这些植物可通过专门种植草药的苗圃获得。

Propagation and Harvest: Easy to grow from transplants, skullcap likes consistently moist, rich soil and does best

when allowed a few hours of shade each day. Harvest the plants by clipping the upper third of the flowering plant.

The plant can be hung in small bunches and dried for later use (the herb keeps for about a year), or the fresh herb

can be made into tincture (the optimum choice).

繁殖和收获：黄芩很容易移植生长，喜欢持续湿润、肥沃的土壤，每天有几个小时的阴凉处效果最好。通

过修剪开花植物的上三分之一来收获植物。可以将植物分成小束悬挂并干燥以备后用（药草可保存约一

年），或者将新鲜药草制成酊剂（最佳选择）。

=== PAGE 312 ===
Alternatives and Adjuncts: For epileptic dogs or for use as a nerve-calming sedative, skullcap can be combined

with an equal part of valerian. Oatstraw and gotu kola also serve as good adjuncts. For nerve pain and spinal

injuries, combine skullcap with an equal amount of Saint-John’s-wort.

替代品和辅助剂：对于癫痫犬或用作镇静神经的镇静剂，黄芩可以与等量的缬草混合使用。燕麦草和雷公

根也是很好的佐料。对于神经疼痛和脊柱损伤，将黄芩与等量的圣约翰草混合。

Cautions and Comments: Some texts and many toxicology databases still claim that skullcap, when used in large

quantities, can be damaging to the liver. However, in the years following the first writing of this book, we have

learned that such claims are inaccurate. The reports of hepatotoxicity that fueled earlier controversies over the safety

of this herb involved skullcap that had been adulterated with germander; an inexpensive look alike that really can be

damaging to the liver. Fortunately, the standards by which skullcap is cultivated, processed, and analytically

identified are better than ever, and safe, good quality skullcap is in ample supply. Just buy it from a reputable

source. This is a very safe herb.

注意事项和评论：一些文献和许多毒理学数据库仍然声称，大量使用黄芩可能会损害肝脏。然而，在本书

首次写作后的几年里，我们了解到这种说法是不准确的。早期有关这种草药安全性的争议的报道涉及掺有

石斑鱼的黄芩的肝毒性。一种廉价的外观确实会损害肝脏。幸运的是，黄芩的种植、加工和分析鉴定标准

比以往任何时候都更好，安全、优质的黄芩供应充足。只需从信誉良好的来源购买即可。这是一种非常安

全的草药。

=== PAGE 313 ===
SLIPPERY ELM

榆

Ulmus fulva

榆树

Elm Family

榆树家族

Appearance: Slippery elm is a deciduous tree that can grow to 80 feet tall. The outer bark is thick, furrowed, and

pinkish brown. The broadly lance-shaped alternate leaves are 4–8 inches long and have toothed margins. The upper

surfaces of the leaves feel like sticky sandpaper.

外观：滑榆是一种落叶乔木，可以长到 80 英尺高。外树皮厚，有皱纹，呈粉棕色。宽矛状互生叶长 4-8 英

寸，边缘有齿。叶子的上表面感觉像粘砂纸。

Habitat and Range: Deciduous forests of the eastern half of the U.S. and Canada; slippery elm is at risk of

endangerment in many areas.

栖息地和范围：美国和加拿大东半部的落叶林；滑榆在许多地区都面临濒临灭绝的危险。

Cycle and Bloom Season: The tree flowers from March to June and loses its leaves in the fall.

周期和开花季节：该树从三月到六月开花，在秋天落叶。

Parts Used: Inner bark

使用部位：内树皮

Primary Medicinal Activities: Lubricates, soothes, and protects internal mucous membranes; emollient, astringent,

anti-inflammatory, nutritive

主要药用活性：润滑、舒缓和保护内部粘膜；润肤、收敛、抗炎、营养

Strongest Affinities: Digestive tract, respiratory tract, skin

亲和力最强：消化道、呼吸道、皮肤

Preparation: Tea, tincture, dried and powdered inner bark

准备：茶、酊剂、干燥的内树皮粉末

Common Uses: Slippery elm is best used in the digestive tract, where it serves as a soothing, protecting, and

lubricating demulcent and a general astringent at the same time. These effects make slippery elm applicable in a

wide variety of circumstances. For diarrhea, enteritis, colitis, and irritations of the stomach, the tannin constituents

of slippery elm tighten digestive mucosa to reduce inflammation and inhibit the entrance of excess fluids into the

intestines. At the same time, the slippery, oily mucilage constituents of the herb help lubricate the digestive tract to

assist in the elimination of waste. In cases of constipation, slippery elm soothes, protects, and lubricates mucous

=== PAGE 314 ===
membranes, assisting and relaxing smooth muscles that have been working extra hard to eliminate waste. Higher up

in the digestive tract, the mucilaginous astringency of the herb lubricates and helps reduce inflammation in the

throat, making swallowing easier and soothing a painful cough. It plays the same roles in the upper respiratory

passages, where it relieves the discomforts of kennel cough and other types of bronchitis.

常见用途：滑榆最适合用于消化道，它可以作为舒缓、保护和润滑的缓和剂，同时也可以作为一般的收敛

剂。这些效果使滑榆适用于各种情况。对于腹泻、肠炎、结肠炎和胃部刺激，滑榆的单宁成分可以收紧消

化粘膜，减少炎症并抑制多余液体进入肠道。同时，草药中滑溜溜的油性粘液成分有助于润滑消化道，帮

助消除废物。在便秘的情况下，滑榆可以舒缓、保护和润滑粘膜，帮助和放松一直在努力消除废物的平滑

肌。在消化道的较高处，这种草药的粘液涩味可以润滑并有助于减少喉咙炎症，使吞咽更容易并缓解疼痛

的咳嗽。它在上呼吸道中起着相同的作用，可以缓解犬舍咳嗽和其他类型支气管炎的不适。

Slippery elm is also nutritious; it was used as a food staple during times of economic hardship in Appalachia. It

contains vitamins A, B complex, C, and K and high amounts of calcium, magnesium, and sodium. The fresh inner

bark has a slightly sweet pecanlike flavor and was often given to children as a treat to chew on (like chewing gum).

It can be fed to convalescing animals as a nutritional digestive tonic—1 teaspoon of the dried inner bark steeped in 8

ounces of hot water to which 1 teaspoon of honey has been added. If constipation is a problem, 1 teaspoon of

organic yogurt (a brand that has live cultures) can be added to the mixture. The entire mixture, inner bark and all, is

then fed to the animals. Many animals will eat this formula in the absence of anything else, and it is useful for a

wide variety of digestive or respiratory problems in dogs and cats. If your companion cannot tolerate honey because

of diabetes, allergies, or other problems, eliminate honey from the recipe. If your companion won’t eat the bark,

strain the fluid through a fine sieve and pour it onto her food. A glycerin-based tincture is also effective and offers

the convenience of administering a squirt or two into the mouth. A good starting dose for the tincture is ¼–½

teaspoon (1–2 milliliters) for each 20 pounds of the animal’s body weight, once or twice daily.

滑榆也有营养；在阿巴拉契亚经济困难时期，它被用作主食。它含有维生素 A、复合 B、C 和 K 以及大

量的钙、镁和钠。新鲜的内树皮有一种微甜的山核桃味道，经常给孩子们作为咀嚼的零食（就像口香

糖）。它可以作为营养消化补品喂给正在康复的动物——将 1 茶匙干燥的内树皮浸泡在 8 盎司热水中，并

加入 1 茶匙蜂蜜。如果存在便秘问题，可以在混合物中添加 1 茶匙有机酸奶（含有活菌的品牌）。然后将

整个混合物（包括内皮和所有东西）喂给动物。许多动物会在没有其他任何东西的情况下吃这种配方奶

粉，它对狗和猫的各种消化或呼吸问题很有用。如果您的伴侣因糖尿病、过敏或其他问题而不能耐受蜂

蜜，请从食谱中去除蜂蜜。如果你的同伴不吃树皮，可以用细筛子过滤液体，然后倒在她的食物上。甘油

酊剂也很有效，并且可以方便地将一两滴注入口中。酊剂的最佳起始剂量是每 20 磅动物体重 1/4 茶匙（1-2

毫升），每天一次或两次。

On the skin, a poultice of slippery elm bark can be applied to wounds, ulcers, boils, or abscesses. In essence, it is

used the same way as plantain (Plantago sp.), a common weed that is better suited for this purpose because of its

abundance and resilience to human impact.

在皮肤上，可以将滑榆树皮膏敷在伤口、溃疡、疖子或脓肿上。从本质上讲，它的使用方式与车前草

(Plantago sp.) 相同，车前草是一种常见杂草，由于其丰富性和对人类影响的适应能力而更适合此目的。

=== PAGE 315 ===
Ulmus fulva

榆树

Availability: Available at herb retailers. When you buy slippery elm bark, make sure that you’re getting the inner

bark only. The powder or bark should be light, fluffy, and pale pinkish tan in color. If it has darker flecks in it or

appears corky, stringy, or woody, it was probably carelessly harvested and the inner bark was not separated from the

outer bark. Inclusion of the outer bark dramatically changes the nature of the medicine. The outer bark contains a

greater amount of tannin constituents, which may cause digestive or urinary tract irritation.

供货情况：可在药草零售商处购买。当您购买滑榆树皮时，请确保只购买内皮。粉末或树皮应该是浅色、

蓬松、浅粉红棕褐色的。如果它里面有深色斑点或者看起来是木栓质、丝状或木质的，那么它可能是不小

心收获的，并且内树皮没有与外树皮分离。外树皮的加入极大地改变了药物的性质。外树皮含有大量单宁

成分，可能会引起消化道或泌尿道刺激。

Propagation and Harvest: Slippery elm is available through nurseries that specialize in native plants. This tree is

not difficult to grow, but, like most trees, it grows slowly. If you have room for one of these beautiful shade trees, by

all means plant one! You will be doing a dwindling species a great favor.

繁殖和收获：滑榆可通过专门种植本土植物的苗圃获得。这棵树并不难生长，但是，像大多数树一样，它

生长得很慢。如果您有空间容纳一棵这些美丽的遮荫树，请务必种植一棵！你将为日益减少的物种做一件

大事。

Alternatives and Adjuncts: Slippery elm has remained quite popular among herb users for centuries.

Unfortunately, many of its consumers remain unaware of its declining population in the wild. Slippery elm is being

overharvested, and many of the trees are succumbing to Dutch elm disease—a fungal infection that kills trees.

Adding to these problems are careless methods by which much of the bark is harvested: the entire tree, which may

be one hundred years old, is cut down, stripped of its bark, then used as firewood or hardwood lumber with little

regard to sustenance of the species. All in all, consumer demand is currently outstripping natural supply.

=== PAGE 316 ===
替代品和辅助品：几个世纪以来，滑榆一直深受草药使用者的欢迎。不幸的是，它的许多消费者仍然没有

意识到它在野外的数量正在减少。滑榆被过度采伐，许多树木都死于荷兰榆树病——一种导致树木死亡的

真菌感染。雪上加霜的是，大部分树皮的采伐方法都是粗心大意的：整棵可能有一百年树龄的树被砍倒，

剥去树皮，然后用作柴火或硬木木材，很少考虑到木材的生计。的物种。总而言之，目前消费者的需求超

过了自然供给。

We include slippery elm here so that you know to use this herb conservatively, respectfully, and in a proper

therapeutic context. Slippery elm should be reserved for circumstances where alternatives are ineffective, and every

effort should be made to support the tree’s cultivation and conservation in the wild. Fortunately, some effective and

accessible alternatives exist for slippery elm. In many instances, slippery elm can be substituted with the common

weed plantain (Plantago sp.). If a more mucilaginous remedy is needed, marshmallow root (Althea officinalis) is an

excellent alternative, especially when it is combined with an astringent such as goldenrod or raspberry leaf, or a

tincture or decoction of uva ursi or juniper.

我们在这里添加了滑榆，以便您知道在适当的治疗背景下保守、尊重地使用这种草药。滑榆应保留在替

代品无效的情况下，并应尽一切努力支持该树的野外种植和保护。幸运的是，滑榆有一些有效且易于使用

的替代品。在许多情况下，滑榆可以用常见杂草车前草（Plantago sp.）代替。如果需要更具粘液性的药

物，药蜀葵根（Althea officinalis）是一个很好的选择，特别是当它与收敛剂（如黄花或覆盆子叶）或熊果

或杜松酊剂或汤剂结合使用时。

Cautions and Comments: With the rare exception of possible allergic reactions, slippery elm is generally safe for

animals. The outer bark, however, (which shouldn’t be in the slippery elm you buy) can cause irritation to the

digestive and urinary tracts and may induce abortion in pregnant animals.

注意事项和评论：除了可能出现过敏反应的罕见情况外，滑榆通常对动物是安全的。然而，外层树皮（不

应该出现在您购买的滑榆树中）会对消化道和泌尿道造成刺激，并可能导致怀孕动物流产。

=== PAGE 317 ===
THYME

百里香

Thymus vulgaris

百里香

Mint Family

薄荷家族

Appearance: Most species of thyme are ground-hugging plants with strong sprawling stems, small (⅛ inch)

opposite leaves, and tiny cylindrical flowers that range in color from white to pale purple. There are countless

variations of leaf color, fragrance, and even flavor available to the gardener. In fact there are so many variations of

Thymus spp., it is possible to dedicate an entire garden to them.

外观：大多数百里香品种都是贴地植物，具有粗壮的蔓生茎、对生的小（⅛英寸）叶子和微小的圆柱形花

朵，颜色从白色到淡紫色不等。园丁可以选择的叶子颜色、香味甚至味道有无数种变化。事实上，百里香

属植物有很多变种，甚至可以将整个花园专门用于它们。

Habitat and Range: Thyme originated in the Mediterranean region. Over 350 species of Thymus exist worldwide

most of which are cultivated as a seasoning herb or landscape shrub.

栖息地和分布范围：百里香原产于地中海地区。全世界有超过 350 种百里香，其中大多数被栽培为调味草

本植物或景观灌木。

Cycle and Bloom Season: Most of the species of thyme are evergreen perennials. Blooming occurs from early

spring to midsummer.

周期和开花季节：大多数百里香品种都是常绿多年生植物。花期从早春到仲夏。

Parts Used: Leaves, stems, and flowers

使用部位：叶、茎、花

Primary Medicinal Activities: Antimicrobial, expels intestinal gas, antispasmodic, cough suppressant, expectorant,

astringent, expels worms

主要药用活性：抗菌、排出肠道气体、解痉、止咳、祛痰、收敛、驱虫

Strongest Affinities: Digestive and respiratory tracts

最强的亲和力：消化道和呼吸道

Preparation: Tea or tincture

准备：茶或酊剂

Common Uses: Most of thyme’s medicinal activity is attributable to its volatile oil constituents, which are thymol

and carvacrol. Thymol is a good antiseptic for the mouth and throat and is useful for fighting gingivitis in dogs and

=== PAGE 318 ===
cats. In fact, it is used as the active ingredient in many commercial toothpaste and mouthwash formulas.

常见用途：百里香的大部分药用活性归因于其挥发油成分，即百里香酚和香芹酚。百里香酚是口腔和喉咙

的良好防腐剂，可用于对抗狗和猫的牙龈炎。事实上，它被用作许多商业牙膏和漱口水配方中的活性成

分。

Combined with thyme’s infection-fighting qualities are cough suppressant and expectorant properties, which

make the herb effective against raspy, unproductive coughs that are secondary to fungal or bacterial infection. As an

antispasmodic, thyme helps to ease bronchial spasms related to asthma. A glycerin tincture, or an alcohol tincture

that has been sweetened with honey, serves well for most internal applications—¼ teaspoon (1 milliliter) for each 30

pounds of an animal’s body weight (12–20 drops for cats), fed to the animal as needed up to twice daily. A cooled

tea works too, provided it has been brewed with near-boiling water to draw out the volatile oil constituents—1

teaspoon per 30 pounds of body weight for dogs, ¼ teaspoon for cats, fed directly into the mouth two to three times

daily. For infections of the mouth or as a preventative against gingivitis, the tincture or a strong tea can be directly

applied to the gum lines or infected sites with a swab. In the digestive tract, it is a useful carminative and

antispasmodic in cases of dyspepsia, irritable bowel, and colitis. It also helps expel parasites, especially hookworms.

In these cases, the dried or fresh herb can be fed with your companion’s food—1 teaspoon per pound of food fed to

dogs, a sprinkling for cats. Horses and other large herbivores with digestive problems can be fed a ½ cup of the

dried herb or a handful of the fresh plants daily. Rabbits, birds, and other small animals can be fed a couple of fresh

sprigs daily. On the surface of the body, thyme tea (skin rinse) or an oil infusion is appropriate for various fungal or

bacterial infections of the skin. In the urinary tract, the tea or tincture serves as an antimicrobial as well as a mildly

astringent tonic that is said to treat urinary incontinence. Use the tincture doses we have suggested for respiratory

problems.

百里香的抗感染特性还具有镇咳和祛痰的特性，这使得百里香能够有效对抗继发于真菌或细菌感染的刺

耳、干咳。作为一种解痉剂，百里香有助于缓解与哮喘相关的支气管痉挛。甘油酊剂或用蜂蜜增甜的酒精

酊剂适合大多数内服——每 30 磅体重的动物使用 1/4 茶匙（1 毫升）（猫为 12-20 滴），喂给动物根据需

要每天最多两次。冷茶也有效，只要用接近沸水冲泡即可提取挥发油成分——狗每 30 磅体重 1 茶匙，猫

1/4 茶匙，直接喂入嘴中，每天 2 到 3 次。对于口腔感染或预防牙龈炎，可以用棉签将酊剂或浓茶直接涂抹

在牙龈线或感染部位。在消化道中，它是一种有用的驱风剂和解痉剂，可治疗消化不良、肠易激和结肠

炎。它还有助于排出寄生虫，尤其是钩虫。在这些情况下，干或新鲜的药草可以与你同伴的食物一起喂食

——给狗喂每磅食物一茶匙，给猫撒一点。有消化问题的马和其他大型食草动物每天可以喂 ½ 杯干药草或

一把新鲜植物。兔子、鸟类和其他小动物每天可以喂几根新鲜的小树枝。在身体表面，百里香茶（皮肤冲

洗液）或油浸液适用于皮肤的各种真菌或细菌感染。在泌尿道中，茶或酊剂可作为抗菌剂以及温和的收敛

补品，据说可以治疗尿失禁。 使用我们建议的治疗呼吸系统问题的酊剂剂量。

=== PAGE 319 ===
Thymus vulgaris

百里香

Availability: Thyme can be purchased at any food market. The plants are available at nurseries.

可获得性：百里香可以在任何食品市场购买。这些植物可在苗圃中获得。

Propagation and Harvest: Thyme is easy to grow from seeds or transplants. It prefers light soil with neutral acidity

but can be grown just about anywhere. It is an excellent choice for rock gardens and walkway borders.

繁殖和收获：百里香很容易通过种子或移植来生长。它喜欢中性酸性的轻质土壤，但几乎可以在任何地方

种植。它是岩石花园和走道边界的绝佳选择。

Alternatives and Adjuncts: For infections of the mouth, thyme combines with myrrh, Oregon grape, certified

organic goldenseal, bee balm, or sage. For respiratory infections, combine with garlic, echinacea, bee balm, or sage.

For asthma, thyme works best when used in conjunction with elecampane, mullein leaf, nettle, or lobelia. For

digestive problems, fennel, parsley seeds, chamomile, and peppermint are all good herbs to combine with thyme.

For worms, try combining thyme with equal amounts of garlic and raw pumpkin seeds.

替代品和辅助剂：对于口腔感染，百里香与没药、俄勒冈葡萄、经过认证的有机金印、蜂香膏或鼠尾草混

合。对于呼吸道感染，可与大蒜、紫锥菊、蜂香膏或鼠尾草混合使用。对于哮喘，百里香与土木香、毛蕊

花、荨麻或半边莲一起使用效果最佳。对于消化问题，茴香、欧芹籽、洋甘菊和薄荷都是与百里香搭配的

好药草。对于蠕虫，尝试将百里香与等量的大蒜和生南瓜子混合。

Cautions and Comments: Thyme is safe, but when it’s ingested in large amounts, it has been known to affect

menstrual cycles. Therefore, it should be used with moderation in pregnant animals. When isolated from the rest of

the plant, thymol is toxic. Do not use an essential oil of thyme in or on your animal.

注意和评论：百里香是安全的，但大量摄入时，已知会影响月经周期。因此，怀孕动物应适量使用。当与

=== PAGE 320 ===
植物的其余部分分离时，百里香酚是有毒的。请勿在动物体内或体表使用百里香精油。

In horses, the volatile oils of thyme may be detectable in a blood sample, and it may be considered a “prohibited

substance” under Jockey Club or other horse show rules.

在马身上，百里香的挥发油可以在血液样本中检测到，并且根据赛马俱乐部或其他马术表演规则，它可

能被视为“禁用物质”。

=== PAGE 321 ===
UVA URSI

紫外可见分光光度计

Arctostaphylos uva-ursi

熊果树

Heath Family

希斯家族

Appearance: Also known as kinnikinnick (an American Indian word meaning “smoking mixture”), uva ursi is a

matforming, densely branched ground cover with woody trailing stems. Several other species of Arctostaphylos are

small to medium (up to 10 feet tall) erect hardwood shrubs. In mountainous areas of the southwestern U.S., A.

manzanita is often seen as a predominant shrub. Despite their size differences, all species present leaf, flower, and

fruit characteristics that distinguish them as members of the Arctostaphylos genus, and all are medicinally useful

despite the fact that A. uva-ursi is the species of primary interest among herbalists. The leathery leaves are spoon to

lance shaped, with upper surfaces darker green than their undersides. Flowers are pink and urn shaped, and they are

arranged in nodding, few-flowered terminal clusters. The fruits are mealy red berries that look like tiny apples.

外观：熊果也被称为 kinnikinnick（美洲印第安语，意思是“吸烟混合物”），是一种席状、浓密分枝的地被

植物，具有木质尾茎。 Arctostaphylos 的其他几种物种是小型到中型（高达 10 英尺）的直立硬木灌木。在

美国西南部的山区，A. manzanita 通常被视为主要灌木。尽管大小不同，但所有物种都呈现出叶、花和果实

的特征，这些特征使它们成为 Arctostaphylos 属的成员，并且尽管 A. uva-ursi 是草药学家最感兴趣的物种，

但所有物种都具有药用价值。革质叶子呈勺状至矛状，上表面比下表面深绿色。花朵呈粉红色，呈瓮形，

排列成点头状、少花的顶生簇。水果是粉红色浆果，看起来像小苹果。

Habitat and Range: Open forest clearings from the montane zone up to the timberline. Arctostaphylos uva-ursi is

the predominant species, ranging throughout the northern third of the U.S., Canada, and Europe. In the mountains of

Washington, Oregon, Nevada, Arizona, New Mexico, and especially California (where A. manzanita is protected by

law), several of the larger shrub varieties are predominant.

栖息地和范围：从山地地带到林线的开阔森林空地。 Arctostaphylos uva-ursi 是主要物种，分布于美国北部

三分之一、加拿大和欧洲。在华盛顿州、俄勒冈州、内华达州、亚利桑那州、新墨西哥州，尤其是加利福

尼亚州（其中 A. manzanita 受到法律保护）的山区，几种较大的灌木品种占主导地位。

Cycle and Bloom Season: Blooms April through June. Fruits begin to develop in midsummer.

周期和开花季节：四月至六月开花。果实在仲夏开始发育。

Parts Used: Leaves and twigs

使用部分：树叶和树枝

Primary Medicinal Activities: Astringent, antimicrobial, diuretic

主要药用活性：收敛剂、抗菌剂、利尿剂

Strongest Affinities: Urinary tract and skin

最强的亲和力：泌尿道和皮肤

=== PAGE 322 ===
Preparation: Decoction or tincture

制剂：汤剂或酊剂

Common Uses: Uva ursi contains a considerable amount of tannins (up to 40 percent), making it one of nature’s

most powerful astringents. It also contains hydroquinones—an assortment of chemical compounds that are active

against a wide variety of pathogens, including Mycobacterium smegmatis, Staphylococcus aureus, Bacillus subtilus,

E. coli, and various Shigella species. Each of these pathogens are often implicated in urinary tract infections. It’s

important to know, however, that for uva ursi to be an effective treatment for urinary tract infections, an alkaline

reaction is necessary to release the hydroquinone into an active form. This means that uva ursi cannot contribute

antibacterial activities to a urinary system in which urine is acidic, a condition that is common in animals, especially

cats, with chronic urinary tract problems. In these circumstances, it is necessary either to elevate urine pH into a

healthier alkaline state or to combine uva ursi with other antibacterial herbs (the easier option). Regardless of urine

pH, uva ursi serves as an effective astringent to stop bleeding and reduce urinary tract inflammation.

常见用途：熊果含有大量单宁（高达 40%），使其成为自然界最强大的收敛剂之一。它还含有对苯二酚

——一种对多种病原体具有活性的化合物，包括耻垢分枝杆菌、金黄色葡萄球菌、枯草芽孢杆菌、大肠杆

菌和各种志贺氏菌。这些病原体中的每一种通常都与尿路感染有关。然而，重要的是要知道，熊果要想有

效治疗尿路感染，碱性反应对于将氢醌释放成活性形式是必要的。这意味着熊果不能对尿液呈酸性的泌尿

系统发挥抗菌活性，这种情况在患有慢性泌尿道问题的动物（尤其是猫）中很常见。在这种情况下，有必

要将尿液 pH 值提高到更健康的碱性状态，或者将熊果与其他抗菌草药结合使用（更简单的选择）。无论尿

液 pH 值如何，熊果酸都可以作为有效的收敛剂来止血和减少尿路炎症。

Uva ursi is a strong herb, and its high tannin content can irritate the kidneys if used for more than a few

consecutive days. Therefore, it is best reserved for situations in which quick intervention is needed.

熊果是一种强效草本植物，如果连续使用几天以上，其高单宁含量会刺激肾脏。因此，最好将其保留用

于需要快速干预的情况。

To use uva ursi internally, make a decoction from the fresh or dried leaves and stems. Use 1 cup of the dried herb

for each 3 cups of water. The leathery, almost plasticlike structure of this plant makes it nearly impervious to water,

so a simple tea is not an option. For dogs, 1 teaspoon of the cooled decoction can be fed once daily for no more than

three days. Cats and ferrets require only ¼–½ teaspoon. Have the animal drink as much water as possible when

using this herb, even if you must resort to using a meat broth. The idea is to course the herb through the urinary tract

so it can quickly alleviate infection and reduce inflammation. Then, after a day or two, gentler astringent herbs can

be used to finish the therapy safely and effectively. Horses and other large herbivores can be fed 1 cup of the dried

leaves daily for up to three days. For contact dermatitis, seborrhea, and fleabites, the decoction can be diluted (1 cup

decoction to 1 quart of water) and used as an antibacterial and astringent skin rinse.

内服熊果时，可将新鲜或干燥的叶和茎制成汤剂。每 3 杯水使用 1 杯干草药。这种植物的坚韧、几乎像

塑料的结构使其几乎不透水，所以简单的茶不是一个选择。对于狗来说，每次1茶匙冷却的汤剂可以每天喂

一次，最多不超过三天。猫和雪貂只需 ¼–½ 茶匙。使用这种草药时，让动物尽可能多地喝水，即使您必须

使用肉汤。这个想法是让草药通过泌尿道，这样它就可以快速缓解感染并减少炎症。然后，一两天后，可

以使用温和的收敛草药来安全有效地完成治疗。马和其他大型食草动物每天可以喂 1 杯干树叶，持续三

天。对于接触性皮炎、皮脂溢和跳蚤，可以将煎剂稀释（1杯煎剂兑1夸脱水）并用作抗菌和收敛皮肤冲洗

剂。

=== PAGE 323 ===
Arctostaphylos uva-ursi

熊果树

Availability: Uva ursi is available through herb retailers. The plants are available through nurseries that specialize

in native plant landscaping.

可用性：熊果可通过药草零售商购买。这些植物可通过专门从事本土植物景观美化的苗圃获得。

Propagation and Harvest: Uva ursi is hardy northward to central Canada and serves as an excellent antierosion

ground cover. It’s not particular about soil but prefers slightly to moderately acid conditions. Uva ursi and other

members of the Arctostaphylos genus are especially good landscape choices in mountain areas of the western United

States and Canada. The leaves and trailing stems can be clipped, dried, and used anytime during their evergreen

growth.

繁殖和收获：熊果耐寒，向北延伸至加拿大中部，是极好的防侵蚀地被植物。它对土壤并不挑剔，但更喜

欢微酸性至中酸性的条件。熊果和 Arctostaphylos 属的其他成员是美国西部和加拿大山区特别好的景观选

择。叶子和尾茎可以在常绿生长期间随时修剪、干燥和使用。

Alternatives and Adjuncts: When treating most forms of urinary tract infection, it’s a good idea to help flush the

animal’s system with the use of diuretic herbs. Dandelion leaf, chickweed, cleavers, or shepherd’s purse serves this

purpose well. For animals with overly concentrated acidic urine, uva ursi can be preceded (by an hour or so) by a

dose of mullein leaf tea, which is moderately effective at alkalinizing the urine. Uva ursi also can be combined with

antimicrobials such as Oregon grape, sage, thyme, or echinacea. Marshmallow serves as a soothing and lubricating

adjunct in urinary tract therapies and is especially useful in the passage of stones and gravel. Corn silk, couch grass,

horsetail, raspberry leaf, and cleavers all serve as weaker urinary astringents that are suitable for minor to

moderately severe urinary ailments.

替代方案和辅助疗法：在治疗大多数形式的尿路感染时，最好使用利尿草药帮助冲洗动物的系统。蒲公英

叶、繁缕、菜刀或荠菜都能很好地达到这个目的。对于酸性尿液过于浓缩的动物，可以在熊果之前（一小

=== PAGE 324 ===
时左右）喝一剂毛蕊花茶，这对于碱化尿液有一定的效果。熊果还可以与俄勒冈葡萄、鼠尾草、百里香或

紫锥菊等抗菌剂结合使用。棉花糖在泌尿道治疗中用作舒缓和润滑辅助剂，在结石和砾石的排出中特别有

用。玉米须、茅草、木贼、覆盆子叶和菜刀都是较弱的泌尿收敛剂，适用于轻微至中度严重的泌尿系统疾

病。

Cautions and Comments: Uva ursi is believed to inhibit oxygen delivery to the uterus and therefore should not be

used in pregnant animals. Like all strong astringents, long-term internal use of uva ursi may irritate the kidneys,

bladder, and urethra. Uva ursi may be contraindicated in cases of preexisting kidney inflammation or renal failure.

See your veterinarian in these circumstances.

注意事项和评论：熊果被认为会抑制氧气输送到子宫，因此不应用于怀孕动物。与所有强效收敛剂一样，

长期内服熊果可能会刺激肾脏、膀胱和尿道。在已有肾脏炎症或肾功能衰竭的情况下，熊果可能是禁忌

的。在这种情况下请去看兽医。

=== PAGE 325 ===
VALERIAN

缬草

Valeriana officinalis

缬草

Valerian Family

缬草家族

Appearance: Many people relate the strongly aromatic roots of valerian to the odor of dirty gym socks. Once you

have experienced the odor of this plant, identification becomes as simple as probing a finger into the soil to scratch a

root. The foliage of this plant is unique as well—the plant first emerges as a cluster of loosely arranged lance-shaped

leaves that usually remain larger than the leaves of the mature upper plant. Upper leaves are divided and become

progressively smaller toward the top of the plant. Flowers are borne in branched clusters of small white to pink

blossoms at the top of the plant. Roots are stringy, brown, and pungent. Several native species of Valeriana occur

throughout North America, with size being the primary difference among species. Most wild valerians remain under

a foot in height, while domestic valerian can grow in excess of 5 feet tall.

外观：许多人将缬草的强烈芳香根与脏运动袜的气味联系起来。一旦您体验了这种植物的气味，识别就变

得像用手指探入土壤中刮擦根部一样简单。这种植物的叶子也很独特——植物首先出现时是一簇松散排列

的矛状叶子，这些叶子通常比成熟的上部植物的叶子大。上部叶子被分开，并向植物顶部逐渐变小。花朵

长在植物顶部，长有白色到粉红色的小花，呈分枝状。根呈丝状，棕色，有辛辣味。缬草的几种本土物种

遍布北美，大小是物种之间的主要区别。大多数野生缬草的高度都在一英尺以下，而家养的缬草可以长到

超过 5 英尺高。

Habitat and Range: Valerian is generally found in soils that retain moisture well into summer. Look for it on north-

facing banks or hillsides or in partially shaded soils that are high in organic matter. Several native species occur

throughout the western third of the U.S. and Canada. It is less common in the midwestern and eastern portions of

North America, but in some areas, especially in New England, V. officinalis has escaped cultivation and is thriving.

栖息地和范围：缬草通常存在于能在夏季保持水分的土壤中。在朝北的河岸或山坡上或有机质含量高的部

分阴影土壤中寻找它。一些本地物种遍布美国西部三分之一的地区和加拿大。它在北美中西部和东部地区

不太常见，但在某些地区，特别是在新英格兰，V. officinalis 已经不再种植，并且正在蓬勃发展。

Cycle and Bloom Season: A perennial that blooms from May to July

周期和开花季节：多年生植物，从五月到七月开花

Parts Used: Primarily the fall root. The upper parts of the plant are useful, too, but make weaker medicine.

使用部位：主要是秋根。植物的上部也很有用，但药效较弱。

Primary Medicinal Activities: Sedative, antispasmodic, anticonvulsive, expels intestinal gas, lowers blood pressure

主要药用活性：镇静、解痉、抗惊厥、排出肠道气体、降低血压

Strongest Affinities: Nervous system, digestive tract

最强亲和力：神经系统、消化道

=== PAGE 326 ===
Preparation: Tincture, tea, fresh or dried root

制剂：酊剂、茶、新鲜或干燥的根

Common Uses: Valerian is without doubt the most widely recognized herbal sedative. As a sedative, valerian works

safely and gently to help calm the nerves and achieve physical relaxation. It does not induce an altered state like one

would expect from a prescription sedative or from consumption of alcohol. Contrary to what many people believe,

valerian is not a precursor of the tranquilizer Valium. Valium is the brand name for diazepam, a prescription drug

that shares no chemical relationship with valerian.

常见用途：缬草无疑是最广泛认可的草药镇静剂。作为一种镇静剂，缬草安全而温和地发挥作用，有助于

镇定神经并实现身体放松。它不会像处方镇静剂或饮酒那样引起状态改变。与许多人的看法相反，缬草并

不是镇静剂安定的前身。安定是地西泮的商品名，地西泮是一种处方药，与缬草没有化学关系。

Herbalists use valerian for insomnia and nervous anxiety and to help the body relax in the presence of physical

pain. It is useful in calming animals during thunderstorms and on trips to the vet or groomer or to help your

companion rest after surgery. For epileptic animals, it sometimes helps to reduce the frequency and severity of

seizures.

草药师使用缬草治疗失眠和神经焦虑，并帮助身体在出现身体疼痛时放松。它可用于在雷暴期间以及去

看兽医或美容师时使动物平静下来，或帮助您的同伴在手术后休息。对于癫痫动物，它有时有助于减少癫

痫发作的频率和严重程度。

Animal studies have concluded that valerenic and valerenal acid work similarly to the drug phenobarbital, a

central nervous system depressant that is used as an anticonvulsive. And the herb has been shown to inhibit

production of an enzyme that breaks down gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), an amino acid that is responsible for

inhibiting and regulating neurotransmissions in the brain. The theory is this: by preventing the breakdown of GABA

with valerian, the increased neural activity that precedes an epileptic seizure is circumvented, and the triggering

mechanism is disabled.

动物研究得出结论，戊烯酸和戊烯酸的作用与药物苯巴比妥类似，苯巴比妥是一种中枢神经系统抑制

剂，用作抗惊厥药。这种草药已被证明可以抑制分解γ-氨基丁酸（GABA）的酶的产生，GABA 是一种负责

抑制和调节大脑神经传递的氨基酸。该理论是这样的：通过用缬草阻止 GABA 的分解，可以避免癫痫发作

前神经活动的增加，并禁用触发机制。

When employed as a sedative, valerian is most effective when small doses are fed several times daily over a

period of several days. This is especially true when it is used in anticipation of a high-anxiety event, such as a

planned interstate trip or a show. In these circumstances, dogs can be fed 5 drops of the tincture three or four times

daily, starting three days prior to the event. Cats need only 1 or 3 drops two or three times daily.

当用作镇静剂时，在几天内每天多次喂食小剂量的缬草是最有效的。当它用于预期高度焦虑事件（例如

计划的州际旅行或演出）时尤其如此。在这种情况下，可以从活动前三天开始，每天给狗喂食三到四次，

每次 5 滴酊剂。猫每天只需要 1 或 3 滴 2 到 3 次。

=== PAGE 327 ===
Valeriana officinalis

缬草

In the digestive tract, valerian is a useful antispasmodic for situations in which nervousness is compounded by a

spastic colon or an upset stomach. But because of valerian’s soaplike content, large amounts of this herb may cause

nausea and vomiting. For digestive and antiepileptic uses, 0.25–0.5 milliliter of the tincture can be fed for each 30

pounds of an animal’s body weight two to three times daily. In horses, valerian helps to reduce anxiety and

nervousness without inducing drowsiness or affecting physical performance. Add ½ ounce of the dried and chopped

herb or 2 tablespoons of the tincture to the horse’s daily feed.

在消化道中，缬草是一种有用的解痉剂，适用于因结肠痉挛或胃部不适而导致紧张的情况。但由于缬草

含有类似肥皂的成分，大量服用这种草药可能会引起恶心和呕吐。对于消化和抗癫痫用途，每 30 磅体重的

动物可喂食 0.25-0.5 毫升酊剂，每日 2-3 次。对于马来说，缬草有助于减少焦虑和紧张，而不会引起困倦或

影响身体表现。在马的每日饲料中添加 ½ 盎司干燥并切碎的药草或 2 汤匙酊剂。

For reasons that remain a mystery, a small percentage of human or animal subjects experience completely

opposite effects from valerian—it acts as a stimulant rather than a sedative.

由于仍然是个谜的原因，一小部分人类或动物受试者经历了缬草完全相反的效果——它起到兴奋剂而不

是镇静剂的作用。

Availability: Various forms of valerian preparations are available through herb retailers. Plants are available

through nurseries.

可用性：各种形式的缬草制剂可通过草药零售商购买。植物可通过苗圃获得。

Propagation and Harvest: Valerian can be grown from seeds or transplants. It likes rich, consistently moist soil

and full sun or partial shade. It is best to plant valerian early in the spring, when the seedlings and young plants can

fully benefit from cool temperatures and precipitation. The roots are dug in late fall of the second year of growth.

The fresh roots can be made into tincture or they can be chopped and dried for later use. When properly stored in

=== PAGE 328 ===
plastic bags, the dried roots keep for up to three years.

繁殖和收获：缬草可以通过种子或移植物种植。它喜欢肥沃、持续湿润的土壤和充足的阳光或部分遮荫。

最好在早春种植缬草，此时幼苗和幼苗可以充分受益于凉爽的气温和降水。在生长第二年的秋末挖根。鲜

根可制成酊剂，也可切碎晒干备用。如果正确存放在塑料袋中，干燥的根可以保存长达三年。

Alternatives and Adjuncts: For epileptic animals, valerian combines well with skullcap. For anxiety and

nervousness, valerian can be combined with skullcap, passionflower, hop, oatstraw, or catnip. These herbs also serve

as alternatives for animals who have an opposite response to valerian.

替代品和辅助剂：对于癫痫动物，缬草与黄芩可以很好地结合。对于焦虑和紧张，缬草可以与黄芩、西番

莲、啤酒花、燕麦草或猫薄荷混合使用。这些草药也可以作为对缬草有相反反应的动物的替代品。

Cautions and Comments: Valerian can cause digestive upset if used in large doses, and it should not be used in

pregnant animals. Otherwise, it is a safe herb.

注意事项和评论：如果大剂量使用缬草会导致消化不良，并且不应用于怀孕动物。否则，它是一种安全的

草药。

=== PAGE 329 ===
WORMWOOD

蒿

Artemesia absinthum

苦艾

Sunflower Family

向日葵家族

Appearance: Wormwood is attractive to the eyes and intriguing to the nose. It has silky, finely divided, gray-green

leaves and a strong fragrance that is reminiscent of both sage and pine. The tiny yellow ball-like flowers of the plant

are presented in loose clusters on the upper branches of the plant. The entire plant may grow to the size of a small

bush up to 4 feet tall.

外观：艾草养眼、引鼻。它有丝滑、细碎的灰绿色叶子和浓郁的香味，让人想起鼠尾草和松树。该植物的

黄色小球状花朵以松散的簇状出现在植物的上部枝条上。整株植物可长至小灌木大小，最高可达 4 英尺。

Habitat and Range: A native of Europe, wormwood is cultivated as a garden plant throughout the Northern

Hemisphere and has found its way into wild areas throughout most of North America.

栖息地和分布范围：艾草原产于欧洲，在整个北半球作为园林植物种植，并已进入北美大部分地区的野生

地区。

It is most commonly found along roadways, in vacant lots, on the edges of cultivated fields, and in other waste

areas.

它最常见于道路沿线、空地、耕地边缘和其他废弃区域。

Cycle and Bloom Season: A long-lived perennial that blooms from June to August

周期和开花季节：一种长寿的多年生植物，从六月到八月开花

Parts Used: Leaves

使用部件：叶子

Primary Medicinal Activities: Antiseptic, antifungal, astringent, expels worms

主要药用活性：抗菌、抗真菌、收敛、驱虫

Strongest Affinities: Skin and digestive tract

最强的亲和力：皮肤和消化道

Preparation: Tea or dried leaves

准备：茶叶或干树叶

Common Uses: As its common name implies, wormwood is among the most well-known herbal worming agents.

=== PAGE 330 ===
Hundreds of years of successful use stand in testament to its ability to expel tapeworms, threadworms, and

especially roundworms from the intestinal tracts of dogs, cats, horses, goats, sheep, cattle, and humans. We seldom

use it, however.

常见用途：顾名思义，艾草是最著名的草药驱虫剂之一。数百年的成功使用证明了它能够驱除狗、猫、

马、山羊、绵羊、牛和人类肠道中的绦虫、线虫，尤其是蛔虫。然而我们很少使用它。

Although wormwood makes life miserable for intestinal parasites, it can also be hard on the host. This is because

wormwood contains an assortment of strong volatile oils, bitter principles, and tannins. If used excessively, these

constituents can be irritating to the liver and kidneys, and in extreme cases may even damage the nervous system.

This is not to say that wormwood can’t be used safely, but an extra measure of care and moderation is certainly

warranted. The problems with using wormwood are multifaceted: too small a dose is ineffective, but a larger dose

might be toxic. Small doses administered over a long period might be effective, but at what cumulative cost to the

animal’s kidneys, liver, and nervous system? Our conclusion is this: wormwood is useful when the absolute

necessity of quick parasite intervention outweighs the risk of toxicity. In holistic animal care, this circumstance is a

rarity because therapeutic focus is placed upon the whole animal, not just one or more symptoms of disease.

尽管艾草让肠道寄生虫的生活变得痛苦，但它也可能对宿主造成伤害。这是因为艾草含有多种强烈的挥

发油、苦味成分和单宁酸。如果过量使用，这些成分会刺激肝脏和肾脏，在极端情况下甚至可能损害神经

系统。这并不是说艾草不能安全使用，但额外的谨慎和节制确实是必要的。使用艾草的问题是多方面的：

剂量太小无效，但剂量太大可能有毒。长期服用小剂量可能有效，但对动物的肾脏、肝脏和神经系统造成

的累积成本是多少？我们的结论是：当快速寄生虫干预的绝对必要性超过毒性风险时，艾草是有用的。在

整体动物护理中，这种情况很少见，因为治疗重点放在整个动物上，而不仅仅是一种或多种疾病症状。

To use wormwood, up to ¼ teaspoon of the dried powdered herb or about ⅛ teaspoon (0.5 milliliter) of a low-

alcohol tincture can be administered daily at mealtime for each 30 pounds of a dog’s body weight. Cats can receive

up to ⅛ teaspoon daily. Do not administer wormwood internally for more than three consecutive days. Wormwood

has an extremely bitter flavor, making it a difficult herb to use. To ease the process of getting it into a hissing cat or

tight-lipped dog, the powder or tincture can be placed in a small gel capsule and wrapped with cheese, meat, or other

special treat. Externally, wormwood is an effective skin rinse (see chapter 1) for bacterial or fungal infections of the

skin, including various forms of dermatophytosis.

要使用艾草，每只体重 30 磅的狗每天可在进餐时服用最多 1/4 茶匙干药草粉或约 ⅛ 茶匙（0.5 毫升）低

酒精酊剂。猫每天最多可以摄入 ⅛ 茶匙。不要连续三天以上内服艾草。艾草味极苦，是一种很难使用的草

药。为了简化将其放入发出嘶嘶声的猫或守口如瓶的狗体内的过程，可以将粉末或酊剂放入小凝胶胶囊

中，并用奶酪、肉或其他特殊食物包裹起来。外用时，艾草是一种有效的皮肤冲洗剂（参见第 1 章），可

治疗皮肤细菌或真菌感染，包括各种形式的皮肤癣菌病。

Availability: Wormwood is available through herb retailers. Plants and seeds are available from nurseries that

specialize in herbs.

可用性：艾草可通过药草零售商购买。植物和种子可从专门种植草药的苗圃中获得。

Propagation and Harvest: Wormwood is easy to grow, requiring average soil, full sunlight, and only occasional

watering. It is hardy northward to central Canada, and plants often live in excess of ten years. The leaves can be

harvested anytime, but they are most potent when gathered on a hot summer afternoon.

繁殖和收获：艾草很容易生长，需要普通的土壤，充足的阳光，只需偶尔浇水。它向北到加拿大中部地区

耐寒，植物的寿命通常超过十年。叶子可以随时采收，但在炎热的夏日午后采收时效果最强。

=== PAGE 331 ===
Artemesia absinthum

苦艾

Alternatives and Adjuncts: For intestinal parasites, garlic, pumpkin seeds, black walnut hulls, sage, thyme, and

Oregon grape all serve as effective and safer substitutes. For infections of the skin, wormwood combines with

calendula, gotu kola, or aloe. Sage serves similar purposes as a topical antimicrobial.

替代品和辅助剂：对于肠道寄生虫，大蒜、南瓜子、黑胡桃壳、鼠尾草、百里香和俄勒冈葡萄都是有效且

更安全的替代品。对于皮肤感染，艾草与金盏花、雷公根或芦荟结合使用。鼠尾草作为局部抗菌剂具有类

似的用途。

Cautions and Comments: The volatile oil thujone, which may be present in alcohol extractions of this plant, can be

damaging to the liver, kidneys, and nervous system if used excessively. Alcohol preparations of this herb should

never be used in animals who suffer from seizures, kidney problems, or liver disease. Wormwood is generally safe

when used in dried herb form, or when prepared without alcohol in the form of water infusions (teas) or as a

glycerite. However, all forms are best avoided in pregnant or lactating animals.

注意事项和评论：这种植物的酒精提取物中可能存在挥发油侧柏酮，如果过度使用，可能会损害肝脏、肾

脏和神经系统。这种草药的酒精制剂绝对不能用于患有癫痫、肾脏问题或肝脏疾病的动物。当以干药草形

式使用时，或以不含酒精的水浸剂（茶）或甘油酯形式制备时，艾草通常是安全的。然而，怀孕或哺乳期

动物最好避免使用所有形式的药物。

=== PAGE 332 ===
YARROW

西洋蓍草

Achillea millefolium

蓍草

Sunflower Family

向日葵家族

Appearance: Yarrow is characterized by its flat-topped terminal clusters of small white to pinkish white flowers

and its alternate, finely dissected, featherlike leaves (millefolium translates to “thousand-leafed”). The entire plant is

strongly aromatic, with a pungency much like that of mothballs. Stems are often woolly haired. Several cultivars of

yarrow have been developed for the floral industry, and many have escaped cultivation. These plants are usually not

as cold hardy as their wild cousins and can be identified by their yellow, peach, or red flowers.

外观：西洋蓍草的特征是它的平顶顶生簇状小白色到粉红色白色花朵和其交替的、精细解剖的羽毛状叶子

（millefolium 翻译为“千叶”）。整个植物有浓郁的芳香，带有类似樟脑丸的辛辣味。茎常被毛。一些西洋

蓍草品种已被开发用于花卉产业，但许多品种已不再种植。这些植物通常不像它们的野生近亲那样耐寒，

可以通过黄色、桃色或红色的花朵来识别。

Habitat and Range: Yarrow is a native of Asia that has made itself at home throughout the northern hemisphere

from sea level to above the timberline. The density of plant populations increases as one travels north through the

western U.S.

栖息地和分布范围：西洋蓍草原产于亚洲，在从海平面到林线以上的整个北半球都安家落户。当你向北穿

过美国西部时，植物种群的密度就会增加。

Cycle and Bloom Season: A perennial that often remains in bloom throughout the spring and summer

周期和开花季节：多年生植物，通常在整个春季和夏季保持开花

Parts Used: Flowers, leaves, and stems

使用部位：花、叶、茎

Primary Medicinal Activities: Antiseptic, analgesic, dilates blood vessels, promotes sweating, expectorant, anti-

inflammatory, stops bleeding, tonic, lowers blood pressure, fever reducing (febrifuge), insect repellent, expels

worms

主要药理作用：抗菌、镇痛、扩张血管、发汗、祛痰、抗炎、止血、滋补、降血压、退热、驱虫、驱虫

Strongest Affinities: Circulatory and respiratory systems, urinary and digestive tracts, skin

最强的亲和力：循环和呼吸系统、泌尿道和消化道、皮肤

Preparation: Dry or fresh herb, tea, tincture, or oil infusion

制备：干或新鲜药草、茶、酊剂或油浸剂

=== PAGE 333 ===
Common Uses: Yarrow is one of the most versatile and well-known herbs in nature’s apothecary. In ancient

Europe, yarrow was known as “wound wort” by warriors who used the plant (presumably for their horses as well as

themselves) to stop bleeding and disinfect wounds on the battlefield. The genus name, Achillea, is derived from the

name of the ancient Greek warrior Achilles.

常见用途：西洋蓍草是自然界药剂师中用途最广泛、最知名的草药之一。在古代欧洲，西洋蓍草被战士们

称为“伤口麦芽汁”，他们在战场上使用这种植物（大概是为了他们的马和他们自己）来止血和消毒伤口。

属名 Achillea 源自古希腊战士阿喀琉斯的名字。

The powder or poultice of the dried or fresh plant is useful for treating less deliberate open wounds such as a

barbed wire cut or a foot pad laceration caused by a broken bottle. To effectively stop bleeding and inhibit bacteria,

simply crush the herb as finely as possible and apply it directly to the wound. A cooled tea of the plant can be used

as a pain- and itch-relieving antiseptic skin rinse, and the aromatic nature of the plant may be of help in repelling

fleas, mosquitoes, and biting flies.

干燥或新鲜植物的粉末或膏剂可用于治疗不太故意的开放性伤口，例如铁丝网割伤或由破碎的瓶子引起

的脚垫撕裂伤。为了有效止血和抑制细菌，只需将草药尽可能粉碎并直接涂在伤口上即可。该植物的冷却

茶可用作止痛和止痒的消毒皮肤冲洗液，该植物的芳香性质可能有助于驱除跳蚤、蚊子和叮咬苍蝇。

Yarrow is a unique peripheral vasodilator and vascular tonic. When taken internally, the flavonoid constituents of

yarrow act to dilate and strengthen peripheral blood vessels and help clear away small blood clots, thus increasing

circulation to the skin and extremities. Combined with this are anti-inflammatory qualities, making yarrow helpful

for problems such as arthritis, navicular syndrome in horses, and severe cases of dermatitis in which peripheral

circulation has been impaired by inflammation. It is also useful for subcutaneous blood clots of the ears and the skin,

especially when internal doses of the tincture are used simultaneously with external applications of an oil infusion.

西洋蓍草是一种独特的外周血管扩张剂和血管补品。内服时，西洋蓍草的类黄酮成分可以扩张和强化外

周血管，帮助清除小血栓，从而增加皮肤和四肢的循环。除此之外，西洋蓍草还具有抗炎作用，有助于治

疗关节炎、马舟骨综合症以及因炎症损害外周循环的严重皮炎等问题。它对于耳朵和皮肤的皮下血栓也很

有用，特别是当内服酊剂与外用油输液同时使用时。

In the urinary tract, a yarrow tea or tincture serves as a bacteriostatic agent in the treatment of chronic or acute

cystitis. It is useful in the early stage of a kidney infection. In the lungs, yarrow’s bacteriostatic and expectorant

properties help the body in its effort to eliminate invading microbes and other foreign bodies. At the same time, the

herb dilates and tonifies respiratory blood vessels to improve pulmonary efficiency. Because of this remarkable

combination of activities, yarrow is among the first herbs we reach for in cases of pneumonia. Yarrow also may be

beneficial for racehorses who suffer from hemorrhagic pulmonary edema (bleeding from the respiratory tract) as a

result of too much strenuous exercise.

在泌尿道中，西洋蓍草茶或酊剂可作为治疗慢性或急性膀胱炎的抑菌剂。它在肾脏感染的早期阶段很有

用。在肺部，西洋蓍草的抑菌和祛痰特性有助于身体消除入侵的微生物和其他异物。同时，该草药可以扩

张和强化呼吸道血管，以提高肺部效率。由于这种显着的活性组合，西洋蓍草是我们治疗肺炎时首先使用

的草药之一。欧蓍草还可能对因过度剧烈运动而患有出血性肺水肿（呼吸道出血）的赛马有益。

In the digestive tract, yarrow is marginally effective at expelling worms and is useful for inflammations, bleeding,

and bacterial infections of the stomach and colon. The bitter principles stimulate digestion and appetite. And yarrow

is well known among herbalists as a fever-reducing remedy. It is especially effective when taken as a tea at the onset

of a fever.

在消化道中，西洋蓍草驱虫效果有限，对治疗胃和结肠的炎症、出血和细菌感染也有帮助。苦味成分能

刺激消化和食欲。西洋蓍草作为一种退烧药物在草药学家中广为人知。在发烧时作为茶饮用尤其有效。

Scientists once thought that yarrow’s therapeutic qualities were chiefly attributable to tannins and a volatile oil

called azulene. The chemical makeup of yarrow is extremely complex, however, and recent studies have found that

the plant contains sterols and various other compounds that possess a much wider range of medicinal activities than

originally thought. One study suggests that yarrow may be a useful antitumor agent and may play an active role in

the treatment of certain types of leukemia.

科学家曾经认为西洋蓍草的治疗功效主要归因于单宁酸和一种名为甘菊环的挥发油。然而，西洋蓍草的

=== PAGE 334 ===
化学组成极其复杂，最近的研究发现，该植物含有甾醇和各种其他化合物，其药用活性范围比最初想象的

要广泛得多。一项研究表明，西洋蓍草可能是一种有用的抗肿瘤剂，并可能在治疗某些类型的白血病中发

挥积极作用。

To use yarrow internally in dogs and cats, a tincture is usually preferable over a tea because the herb is bitter and

hard to feed in appreciable quantities. For dogs, about ¼ teaspoon (1 milliliter) of the tincture can be fed for each 30

pounds of an animal’s body weight, two to three times daily. Cats and similar-sized animals need only ⅛ teaspoon

twice daily. Horses and other large herbivores can be allowed to eat the plants from their pastures as they wish, or

they can be fed 1 ounce of the dried herb as part of their daily ration.

为了给狗和猫内服西洋蓍草，酊剂通常比茶更好，因为这种药草很苦，很难大量喂食。对于狗来说，每

30 磅体重的动物可以喂食约 1/4 茶匙（1 毫升）的酊剂，每天 2 至 3 次。猫和类似体型的动物每天两次只需

⅛ 茶匙。马和其他大型食草动物可以随意食用牧场上的植物，也可以将 1 盎司干草本植物作为日常口粮的

一部分喂给它们。

Achillea millefolium

蓍草

Availability: Yarrow is a widely distributed weed that is also available through herb retailers and nurseries.

可用性：西洋蓍草是一种分布广泛的杂草，也可以通过药草零售商和苗圃购买。

Propagation and Harvest: Yarrow is easy to grow from seed or transplants. True yarrow (A. millefolium) is hardy

down to at least -30° F and is drought tolerant as well. The yellow and hybrid varieties (of which there are several

colors) are less hardy but are still easy to grow in most areas of North America. Moderately rich, slightly acid soil

and full sun yields healthy plants, which usually don’t bloom until their second year of growth. Harvest the upper

third of the flowering plant (stems, leaves, and flowers) in midsummer on a dry, warm day— this is when the

highest concentration of active constituents are found in the plant.

繁殖和收获：西洋蓍草很容易通过种子或移植来生长。真正的西洋蓍草 (A. millefolium) 能耐受至少 -30° F

=== PAGE 335 ===
的温度，并且也耐旱。黄色和杂交品种（有多种颜色）的耐寒性较差，但在北美大部分地区仍然很容易种

植。中等肥沃、微酸性的土壤和充足的阳光会产生健康的植物，通常要到生长的第二年才会开花。在仲夏

干燥温暖的日子里收获开花植物的上三分之一（茎、叶和花）——此时植物中活性成分的浓度最高。

Alternatives and Adjuncts: To stop bleeding, nothing compares with a first aid powder made from a fifty-fifty mix

of dried yarrow and cayenne. For situations requiring a vascular tonic or peripheral vasodilator, yarrow combines

well with garlic, cayenne, ginkgo, hawthorn, or ginger.

替代品和辅助剂：为了止血，没有什么比用干西洋蓍草和辣椒混合制成的急救粉更好的了。对于需要血管

补品或外周血管扩张剂的情况，西洋蓍草与大蒜、辣椒、银杏、山楂或生姜可以很好地结合。

For urinary tract infections, marshmallow, couch grass, horsetail, echinacea, and Oregon grape combine well with

yarrow. For infections of the digestive tract, combine yarrow with Oregon grape. For topical treatment of

inflammations and infections of the skin, consider sage, rosemary, calendula, chamomile, and juniper as adjuncts or

alternatives. For topical treatment of closed injuries, yarrow combines especially well with arnica.

对于尿路感染，棉花糖、茅草、木贼、紫锥花和俄勒冈葡萄与西洋蓍草搭配效果很好。对于消化道感

染，将西洋蓍草与俄勒冈葡萄混合。对于皮肤炎症和感染的局部治疗，可以考虑使用鼠尾草、迷迭香、金

盏花、洋甘菊和杜松作为辅助剂或替代品。对于闭合性损伤的局部治疗，西洋蓍草与山金车的结合特别

好。

Cautions and Comments: Allergic reactions to yarrow are fairly common, and the volatile oils of the plant may

cause dermatitis when they are applied to the skin of sensitive animals. This plant contains thujone, a substance that

is poorly water soluble but may be present in alcohol extractions of the herb. Any herb preparation that contains

appreciable amounts of thujone has a potential of being toxic, especially if large quantities are consumed over an

extended period of time (meaning that moderation is the key to safe long-term use). Like most herbs that are rich

with volatile oils, yarrow should be used with caution in pregnant or lactating animals, as these constituents have

been shown to cross the placenta to the fetus and are known to have stimulant effects upon the uterus if they are

ingested in sufficiently large quantities.

注意事项和评论：对西洋蓍草的过敏反应相当常见，当将植物的挥发油涂在敏感动物的皮肤上时，可能会

引起皮炎。这种植物含有侧柏酮，这是一种水溶性较差的物质，但可能存在于该草药的醇提取物中。任何

含有大量侧柏酮的草药制剂都可能有毒，尤其是在长时间内大量食用的情况下（这意味着适量是安全长期

使用的关键）。与大多数富含挥发油的草药一样，西洋蓍草在怀孕或哺乳期动物中应谨慎使用，因为这些

成分已被证明可以穿过胎盘到达胎儿，并且已知如果在怀孕或哺乳期动物摄入这些成分，会对子宫产生刺

激作用。足够大的数量。

=== PAGE 336 ===
YELLOW DOCK

黄色码头

Rumex crispus

酸模

Buckwheat Family

荞麦家族

Appearance: Yellow dock is a hearty perennial that may grow up to 5 feet. The elongated lance-shaped leaves at

the base of the plant grow up to 12 inches long and 4 inches wide. The leaves are often curled at their margins

(hence another common name for the plant: curly dock). The alternate stem leaves are smaller but more numerous.

The single stout stem is often red and bears long clusters of small, greenish white flowers above the rest of the plant.

As the flowers mature and dry, they turn a rust-red color that often stands in bold contrast to the surrounding flora.

外观：黄坞是一种茂盛的多年生植物，可长至 5 英尺。植物基部细长的矛状叶子长至 12 英寸，宽 4 英寸。

叶子的边缘通常卷曲（因此该植物的另一个俗名是：卷曲码头）。互生的茎叶较小但数量较多。单根粗壮

的茎通常是红色的，在植物的其余部分上方开有长簇的绿色白色小花。当花朵成熟并干燥时，它们会变成

铁锈红色，通常与周围的植物形成鲜明的对比。

Habitat and Range: Widely distributed in disturbed areas throughout North America. The entire Rumex genus is

imported from Europe.

栖息地和分布范围：广泛分布于整个北美受干扰的地区。整个酸模属都是从欧洲进口的。

Cycle and Bloom Season: A perennial that blooms May through August

周期和开花季节：多年生植物，五月至八月开花

Parts Used: Roots

使用部位：根部

Primary Medicinal Activities: Stimulates bile production, helps with blood cleansing, laxative, antimicrobial,

nutritive

主要药用活性：刺激胆汁产生，帮助血液净化，通便，抗菌，营养

Strongest Affinities: Digestive tract, skin, and liver

最强的亲和力：消化道、皮肤和肝脏

Preparation: Tincture, tea, and dried root

准备：酊剂、茶、干根

Common Uses: Yellow dock is well described as a quick-cleansing herb. The root contains a combination of

anthraquinone, small amounts of oxalic acid and oxalates, and other constituents that stimulate liver function and

=== PAGE 337 ===
contractions of intestinal smooth muscles (peristalsis). In effect, the body is prompted to work harder at eliminating

waste from the bloodstream and digestive tract. This makes yellow dock especially useful for treating chronic or

acute dermatitis that may be attributable to toxic excesses and elimination deficiencies in the body. It is also

beneficial in treating rheumatoid arthritis that is secondary to similar circumstances. Because of its ability to quickly

flush the body of systemic waste, yellow dock is sometimes used in the herbal treatment of cancer. Because the root

is extremely high in iron, it is considered a traditional remedy for anemia.

常见用途：黄坞被描述为一种快速清洁的草药。根部含有蒽醌、少量草酸和草酸盐以及刺激肝功能和肠道

平滑肌收缩（蠕动）的其他成分的组合。实际上，身体会更加努力地清除血液和消化道中的废物。这使得

黄坞特别适用于治疗慢性或急性皮炎，这些皮炎可能是由于体内有毒物质过量和消除不足所致。它还有益

于治疗继发于类似情况的类风湿性关节炎。由于它能够快速冲洗体内的系统废物，黄坞有时被用于癌症的

草药治疗。由于根部铁含量极高，因此被认为是治疗贫血的传统药物。

Yellow dock is effective when used within the parameters we have just described. It is somewhat of a “heroic

remedy,” an herb that forces quick, dramatic responses in the body, much like an allopathic drug. Therefore, its use

in the holistic care of animals should be limited to short-term applications at the onset of detoxification therapies that

are focused on long-term holistic results. Alternatively, it can be used as a potentiating adjunct in combination with

tonic herbs such as burdock, dandelion, red clover, slippery elm, and alfalfa. Using yellow dock as a symptomatic

quick fix (such as for constipation) amounts to little more than substituting an herb for a drug.

在我们刚刚描述的参数范围内使用时，黄色码头是有效的。它在某种程度上是一种“英雄疗法”，是一种

能够迫使身体产生快速、剧烈反应的草药，就像一种对抗疗法药物一样。因此，其在动物整体护理中的使

用应仅限于在注重长期整体效果的解毒疗法开始时的短期应用。或者，它可以与牛蒡、蒲公英、红三叶

草、滑榆和苜蓿等滋补草药结合使用，作为增强佐剂。使用黄坞作为症状的快速解决方案（例如便秘）无

异于用草药代替药物。

Externally, yellow dock can be used as an itch-relieving, alterative skin rinse or poultice in the treatment of skin

disorders such as seborrhea, pyoderma, and contact dermatitis. To use yellow dock internally, consult your holistic

veterinarian.

外用时，黄坞可用作止痒、替代性皮肤冲洗剂或膏剂，用于治疗皮脂溢、脓皮病和接触性皮炎等皮肤

病。要内部使用黄色码头，请咨询您的整体兽医。

Availability: A widely distributed weed. Available through herb retailers and seed catalogs that specialize in

medicinal plants.

可用性：一种广泛分布的杂草。可通过药草零售商和专门从事药用植物的种子目录购买。

=== PAGE 338 ===
Rumex crispus

酸模

Propagation and Harvest: Yellow dock is easy to grow once it’s established, but the seeds can remain dormant in

the soil for several years before germinating. However, the plants grow in just about any soil and need little care.

The roots are dug in fall after the plant has gone to seed and the leaves have begun to die back for winter.

繁殖和收获：黄坞一旦建立就很容易生长，但种子在发芽前可以在土壤中休眠数年。然而，这些植物几乎

可以在任何土壤中生长，几乎不需要照顾。秋天植物结籽后挖根，叶子开始枯死过冬。

Alternatives and Adjuncts: For situations that require stimulation of the liver, consider dandelion root and Oregon

grape as less “heroic” alternatives. For anemia, yellow dock combines well, in proportionately small amounts, with

alfalfa, garlic, red clover, spirulina, and nettle.

替代品和辅助品：对于需要刺激肝脏的情况，可以考虑蒲公英根和俄勒冈葡萄作为不那么“英雄”的替代

品。对于贫血，黄坞可以与苜蓿、大蒜、红三叶草、螺旋藻和荨麻搭配使用，但用量要适量。

Cautions and Comments: Even though yellow dock is a much gentler laxative than most herbs that contain

considerable amounts of anthraquinones, yellow dock should not be used in situations involving either intestinal

bleeding or preexisting obstructions such as intestinal tumors. When it is used in moderation, yellow dock is quite

safe, but excessive use of the herb is likely to result in intestinal cramping, diarrhea, and vomiting, and it may lead to

laxative dependency. Like all stimulant laxatives, yellow dock should not be used during pregnancy.

注意和评论：尽管黄坞是一种比大多数含有大量蒽醌的草药更温和的泻药，但黄坞不应用于涉及肠道出血

或已有阻塞（如肠道肿瘤）的情况。适量使用黄坞是相当安全的，但过量使用该草药可能会导致肠痉挛、

腹泻和呕吐，并可能导致泻药依赖。与所有刺激性泻药一样，怀孕期间不应使用黄坞。

=== PAGE 339 ===
YUCCA

丝兰

Yucca schidigera

丝兰

Lily Family

百合家族

Appearance: Although argument exists among botanists over yucca’s specific family classification, yucca is not a

cactus. Essentially, “old scholars” consider yucca a member of Agavaceae, the agave family, while current botanists

refer to yucca as a member of Liliaceae, the Lily family. We opt for the latter. Once you see yucca’s beautiful

cream-colored flower clusters, you will likely agree that it’s a lily. The showy 1- to 3-inch flowers are presented in

dense clusters atop a proportionately tall central stalk.

外观：虽然植物学家对丝兰的具体科分类存在争议，但丝兰不是仙人掌。本质上，“老学者”认为丝兰是龙

舌兰科的成员，而现代植物学家则将丝兰视为百合科的成员。我们选择后者。一旦您看到丝兰美丽的米色

花簇，您可能会同意它是百合。艳丽的 1 至 3 英寸的花朵密集地簇拥在比例较高的中央花茎上。

The rest of the plant is characterized by its sharply pointed, swordlike leaves. The various species differ primarily

by their size, but the most distinguishable of them is Y. brevifolia, commonly called Joshua tree, which grows up to

20 feet tall. This large yucca is an inhabitant of the high southwestern deserts of Arizona, Nevada, western New

Mexico, and especially California, where it is protected by law. Most yucca species, however, share similar

appearances with Y. schidigera (Mojave yucca), a long-leafed variety that grows as a 1- to 6-foot-high clump of

pain-inflicting puncturing green swords.

该植物其余部分的特点是其尖锐的剑状叶子。各种物种的主要区别在于它们的大小，但其中最明显的是

短叶 Y. brevifolia，通常称为约书亚树，可长到 20 英尺高。这种大型丝兰是亚利桑那州、内华达州、新墨

西哥州西部，尤其是加利福尼亚州西南高沙漠的居民，在那里它受到法律保护。然而，大多数丝兰物种与

Y. schidigera（莫哈韦丝兰）具有相似的外观，Y. schidigera 是一种长叶品种，生长为 1 至 6 英尺高的丛生

刺痛的绿色剑。

Habitat and Range: Yucca schidigera’s natural habitats are the dry coastal canyons of California and the inland

deserts of the western U.S. This is the primary variety of commerce, and it is widely harvested and marketed by the

natural products and landscape industries.

栖息地和范围：丝兰的自然栖息地是加利福尼亚州干燥的沿海峡谷和美国西部的内陆沙漠。这是主要的商

业品种，被天然产品和景观行业广泛收获和销售。

Several other species of yucca range throughout the deserts and plains of North America. Although most of us

associate plants such as yucca with hot, dry desert environments, the true definition of desert pertains only to rainfall

limitations, and various species of yucca have adapted to dramatically contrasting temperatures. For example, Y.

glauca (small soapweed) thrives in many areas of the northern plains states and Canada, where summers are

excruciatingly hot and dry, but winters are subarctic in average temperature.

其他几种丝兰遍布北美的沙漠和平原。尽管我们大多数人将丝兰等植物与炎热、干燥的沙漠环境联系在

一起，但沙漠的真正定义仅与降雨量限制有关，并且各种丝兰已经适应了截然不同的温度。例如，Y.

glauca（小皂草）在北部平原各州和加拿大的许多地区繁衍生息，那里的夏季极其炎热干燥，但冬季的平均

气温却处于亚北极水平。

Cycle and Bloom Season: A perennial, yucca’s bloom frequency and duration depend largely on available

=== PAGE 340 ===
precipitation. Cultivated plants may bloom once every one to three years, while wild plants may remain dormant for

decades.

周期和开花季节：丝兰是多年生植物，其开花频率和持续时间很大程度上取决于可用的降水量。栽培植物

可能每一到三年开花一次，而野生植物可能会休眠数十年。

Parts Used: Roots

使用部位：根部

Primary Medicinal Activities: Nutritive, anti-inflammatory, and antitumor

主要药用活性：营养、抗炎和抗肿瘤

Strongest Affinities: Digestive tract, musculoskeletal system

最强的亲和力：消化道、肌肉骨骼系统

Preparation: Chopped and dried herb or tincture

准备：切碎并干燥的草药或酊剂

Common Uses: Yucca contains notable quantities of vitamin C, beta-carotene, calcium, iron, magnesium,

manganese, niacin, phosphorus, protein, and B vitamins, but its greater healing powers are chiefly attributable to its

impressive content of saponin compounds. Saponins are a group of soaplike plant glycosides that are characterized

by their tendency to dramatically foam up when agitated with water. While dozens of saponins are present in

hundreds of useful plants, two root-borne saponins stand out among others as yucca’s primary active constituents:

sarsasapogenin and smilagenin. These two compounds are irritating, cleansing, and penetrating to the mucous

membranes of the small intestine. It is theorized that these actions aid in the assimilation of important minerals and

vitamins by allowing increased passage of critical nutrients through the intestinal walls. This in turn optimizes the

nutritional value of an animal’s food.

常见用途：丝兰含有大量的维生素 C、β-胡萝卜素、钙、铁、镁、锰、烟酸、磷、蛋白质和 B 族维生素，

但其更强的治愈能力主要归功于其皂苷化合物的含量。皂苷是一组类似肥皂的植物苷，其特征是与水搅拌

时会急剧起泡。虽然数百种有用植物中存在数十种皂苷，但丝兰的主要活性成分有两种根部皂苷：菝葜皂

苷元和菝葜皂苷元。这两种化合物具有刺激性、清洁性并能渗透到小肠粘膜。从理论上讲，这些作用可以

增加关键营养物质通过肠壁的通道，从而有助于重要矿物质和维生素的吸收。这反过来又优化了动物食物

的营养价值。

Although many of the specifics of yucca’s medicinal actions remain unclear to scientists, the results of feeding

yucca can be astounding. In studies conducted at Colorado State University, cattle who received a small quantity of

yucca in their feed showed greater weight gain than those who didn’t. Other trial accounts have concluded that

chickens who are fed yucca have a tendency to lay more eggs, and dairy cattle tend to produce more milk.

尽管科学家们仍不清楚丝兰药用作用的许多细节，但喂养丝兰的结果可能令人震惊。在科罗拉多州立大

学进行的研究中，在饲料中添加少量丝兰的牛比没有添加丝兰的牛体重增加得更多。其他试验报告得出的

结论是，喂食丝兰的鸡往往会产更多的鸡蛋，而奶牛往往会产更多的牛奶。

Another reason you may find yucca in dog, cat, horse, or cattle feed is because it has been found to reduce the

emission of unpleasant odors in urine and feces. In studies that examined the chemical breakdown of urea (the

body’s final by-product of digested proteins), it was found that the anhydrous ammonia that is largely responsible

for the less-than-delightful odor of animal excrement is caused by a single microbial enzyme called urease. Further

studies concluded that food supplements of Y. schidigera inhibit the production of urease, and as a result, fecal and

urine odors are reduced by up to 56 percent in dogs and 49 percent in cats. Believe it or not, this attribute has

brought about tremendous market appeal for yucca, as millions of people find the notion of less offensive animal

waste an attractive alternative to promptly cleaning it up. The holistic question is, What are the deeper purposes of

=== PAGE 341 ===
the urease enzymes we wish to suppress? Urease is a natural by-product of a natural metabolic process, and we can

only speculate about the long-term results of our interference. People who accept this concept without question

simply don’t realize (or don’t care) that poor-quality proteins produce excess urea and larger, more offensive stools.

If an animal is fed a balanced natural diet, excess fecal and urine odor shouldn’t occur.

您可能在狗、猫、马或牛饲料中发现丝兰的另一个原因是，它被发现可以减少尿液和粪便中难闻气味的

散发。在检查尿素（人体消化蛋白质的最终副产品）化学分解的研究中发现，无水氨是动物粪便中难闻气

味的主要原因，它是由一种微生物酶引起的称为脲酶。进一步的研究得出结论，Y. schidigera 的食品补充剂

可抑制脲酶的产生，因此，狗的粪便和尿液气味减少了 56%，猫的粪便和尿液气味减少了 49%。不管你相

信与否，这一属性为丝兰带来了巨大的市场吸引力，因为数百万人发现，减少攻击性的动物粪便是一种有

吸引力的替代方案，可以迅速清理它。整体问题是，我们希望抑制的脲酶的更深层次目的是什么？脲酶是

自然代谢过程的天然副产品，我们只能推测我们干扰的长期结果。毫无疑问地接受这一概念的人根本没有

意识到（或不在乎）劣质蛋白质会产生过量的尿素和更大、更难闻的粪便。如果给动物喂食均衡的天然饮

食，就不会出现过多的粪便和尿液气味。

Yucca schidigera

丝兰

Although much of yucca’s nutritive value is likely attributable to its actions upon the intestinal membranes, the

mystique surrounding this plant’s impressive track record as a medicine becomes much clearer when we take a close

look at its active ingredients. Sarsasapogenin and smilagenin are known by the scientific and herbal community as

phytosterols, or more specifically steroidal saponins, which are compounds that act as precursors to the

corticosteroids naturally produced in the body. Both of these compounds are extracted from yucca and various other

herbs as starter substances in the production of pharmaceutical corticosteroid drugs. If this sounds ominous to those

of you who are seeking natural alternatives to such drugs, please rest assured.

尽管丝兰的大部分营养价值可能归因于其对肠膜的作用，但当我们仔细研究其活性成分时，这种植物作

为药物的令人印象深刻的记录的神秘性就变得更加清晰。菝葜皂苷元和异菝葜皂苷元被科学和草药界称为

植物甾醇，或更具体地说是甾体皂苷，它们是体内自然产生的皮质类固醇的前体化合物。这两种化合物都

=== PAGE 342 ===
是从丝兰和各种其他草药中提取的，作为皮质类固醇药物生产中的起始物质。如果这对于那些正在寻求此

类药物的天然替代品的人来说听起来不祥，请放心。

The differences between a phytosterol and a synthetic steroid drug are extreme. The process by which

phytosterols are used to manufacture pharmaceutical steroids starts with a simple plant compound and proceeds

from there into a complex scientific process that would have given Einstein a headache. Comparing yucca to a

corticosteroid drug is like comparing a single chemical compound in a packet of active dry yeast with a loaf of

finished twelve-grain bread. The terms plant steroids and plant hormones are erroneous—no known plant actually

carries steroidal hormones into the body. In essence, phytosterols stimulate and assist the body in using and

producing its own corticosteroids and corticosteroid-related hormones. Furthermore, steroidal saponins work with

the natural immune functions of the body, whereas synthetically produced counterparts such as the prescription drug

prednisolone are designed and introduced into the body with the intent of suppressing immune functions to attain the

desired results.

植物甾醇和合成类固醇药物之间的差异是巨大的。植物甾醇用于制造药用类固醇的过程从一种简单的植

物化合物开始，然后进入一个复杂的科学过程，这会让爱因斯坦头疼。将丝兰与皮质类固醇药物进行比较

就像将一包活性干酵母中的单一化合物与一条成品十二粒面包进行比较。植物类固醇和植物激素这两个术

语是错误的——没有一种已知的植物实际上将类固醇激素带入体内。从本质上讲，植物甾醇刺激并协助身

体使用和产生自身的皮质类固醇和皮质类固醇相关激素。此外，甾体皂苷与人体的天然免疫功能一起发挥

作用，而合成生产的对应物（例如处方药泼尼松龙）的设计并引入体内的目的是抑制免疫功能，以达到预

期的效果。

Although this theory has not been proven as fact by the scientific community, it can be reasonably hypothesized

that the natural corticosteroid-like actions of yucca may play a role in the body’s natural production of growth

hormones. This in turn may contribute significantly to the accelerated growth and production we see in animals who

receive this plant in their food. We do know, however, that yucca is safe when fed in moderation.

尽管这一理论尚未被科学界证实为事实，但可以合理地假设丝兰的天然皮质类固醇样作用可能在人体自

然产生生长激素中发挥作用。这反过来可能对我们在食物中摄入这种植物的动物的加速生长和生产做出重

大贡献。然而，我们确实知道，适量食用丝兰是安全的。

A water extract (tea) of Y. glauca (small soapweed) has been shown to have antitumor activity against certain

melanomas in mice. Its mechanism in this context is believed to stem from polysaccharide constituents, not

necessarily steroidal saponins.

Y. glauca（小肥皂草）的水提取物（茶）已被证明对小鼠的某些黑色素瘤具有抗肿瘤活性。在这方面，

其机制被认为源于多糖成分，而不一定是甾体皂苷。

In a study conducted at the beginning of the twentieth century, the “saponin extract” from the “desert yucca plant”

was found to bring about safe and effective relief from pain and inflammation in human arthritis patients who were

given the extract four times daily over an extended period. Although this study has been repeatedly discredited by

the American Arthritis Foundation because of the controversial manner in which it was conducted, the beneficial

effects of yucca in humans and animals remain clearly validated in the minds of holistic practitioners who have used

it repeatedly and have witnessed positive results. Several contemporary naturopaths, veterinarians, and animal

nutritionists who use yucca in their practices claim that yucca has a 50 to 80 percent success rate in bringing relief to

patients suffering from either osteoarthritis or rheumatoid arthritis. Again, yucca’s effectiveness here is likely

attributable to the plant’s nutrition-assisting and anti-inflammatory actions of its steroidal saponin constituents.

二十世纪初进行的一项研究发现，来自“沙漠丝兰植物”的“皂苷提取物”可以安全有效地缓解人类关节炎患

者的疼痛和炎症，每天服用该提取物四次以上。较长的一段时间。尽管这项研究因其进行方式有争议而多

次遭到美国关节炎基金会的质疑，但丝兰对人类和动物的有益作用在反复使用丝兰并见证了积极效果的整

体实践者的心目中仍然得到了明确的证实。结果。几位在实践中使用丝兰的当代自然疗法师、兽医和动物

营养学家声称，丝兰在缓解骨关节炎或类风湿性关节炎患者的症状方面有 50% 至 80% 的成功率。同样，丝

兰在这里的功效可能归因于该植物的甾体皂苷成分的营养辅助和抗炎作用。

To stimulate appetite and increase absorption of nutrients or to relieve the pain and inflammation of arthritis, add

a ½ teaspoon of the dried and powdered root to each pound of a dog’s daily food ration. Cats need only ¼ teaspoon

daily. If you opt to use a tincture, find or make one that contains less than 5 percent alcohol because high-alcohol

preparations of this herb may nauseate animals. A good tincture dose is about ⅛ teaspoon (0.5 milliliter) for each 20

pounds of an animal’s body weight, once daily before a meal. Half a cup of the dried, chopped root is a sufficient

=== PAGE 343 ===
daily dose for horses and other large animals.

为了刺激食欲并增加营养吸收或缓解关节炎的疼痛和炎症，请在狗的每磅每日食物配给中添加 1/2 茶匙干

燥的粉末状根。猫每天只需要 ¼ 茶匙。如果您选择使用酊剂，请找到或制作酒精含量低于 5% 的酊剂，因

为这种草药的高酒精制剂可能会使动物感到恶心。酊剂的最佳剂量为每 20 磅动物体重约 ⅛ 茶匙（0.5 毫

升），每日一次，饭前服用。对于马和其他大型动物来说，半杯干燥、切碎的根就足够了。

Availability: Herb retailers and landscape nurseries

可用性：药草零售商和景观苗圃

Propagation and Harvest: Because of their moderate size, attractive flowers and foliage, and low water and

maintenance requirements, Y. schidigera and Y. glauca have become popular as landscape plants in areas with

moderate temperatures and low to moderate precipitation. These plants do well in depleted soils, and once

established they require little care.

繁殖和收获：由于其大小适中、花朵和叶子有吸引力、水分和维护要求低，Y. schidigera 和 Y. glauca 在温

度适中、低至中等降水量的地区作为景观植物而广受欢迎。这些植物在贫瘠的土壤中生长良好，一旦生长

就不需要太多照顾。

Alternatives and Adjuncts: For arthritis, yucca combines well with alfalfa, licorice, dandelion, or shepherd’s purse.

替代品和辅助品：对于关节炎，丝兰与苜蓿、甘草、蒲公英或荠菜完美搭配。

Cautions and Comments: If used in large dosages or over an extended period of time, yucca may become irritating

to the stomach lining and intestinal mucosa, which may cause vomiting. This problem can be especially dangerous

in horses and other large animals who are unable to vomit (instead they bloat). Many Indian tribes of the American

Southwest used yucca preparations to induce vomiting in cases of food poisoning. For this reason we would not use

any food additive that contains in excess of 15 percent yucca root unless instructed to do so by a veterinarian or

trained animal nutritionist. We do not recommend feeding yucca every day in an animal’s diet either; rather, give the

animal at least a two-day break from the herb each week. Many holistic practitioners believe that if the plant is used

constantly over an extended period of time, the saponins in yucca actually begin to have a reverse effect, slowing

nutrient absorption (especially fat-soluble vitamins such as vitamin D) in the small intestine. Allowing breaks in

your animal’s diet helps to alleviate the possibility of a cumulative irritating effect in her digestive tract.

注意事项和评论：如果大剂量或长时间使用，丝兰可能会刺激胃壁和肠粘膜，从而导致呕吐。对于无法呕

吐（而是肿胀）的马和其他大型动物来说，这个问题尤其危险。美国西南部的许多印第安部落在食物中毒

时使用丝兰制剂来催吐。因此，我们不会使用丝兰根含量超过 15% 的任何食品添加剂，除非兽医或经过培

训的动物营养师指示这样做。我们也不建议每天在动物饮食中喂养丝兰；相反，每周至少让动物休息两

天。许多整体治疗师认为，如果长时间持续使用丝兰植物，丝兰中的皂苷实际上会开始产生相反的作用，

减缓小肠中营养物质的吸收（尤其是脂溶性维生素，如维生素 D）。允许动物的饮食中断有助于减轻其消

化道累积刺激作用的可能性。

=== PAGE 344 ===
SUPPLEMENTAL HERB LIST

补充药草清单

ASHWAGANDA

阿什瓦甘达

Withania somnifera

睡茄

Primary Medicinal Activities: Strengthens the body’s resistance to stress (adaptogenic), anti-inflammatory,

antitumor, lowers blood pressure

主要药用活性：增强身体对压力的抵抗力（适应性）、抗炎、抗肿瘤、降低血压

Common Uses: Coughs, debility, nausea, fever, tumors, wounds, senility

常见用途：咳嗽、虚弱、恶心、发烧、肿瘤、伤口、衰老

Safety/Cautions/Contraindications: None found

安全/注意事项/禁忌症：未发现

=== PAGE 345 ===
BILBERRY

覆盆子

Vaccinium myrtillus

越橘

Primary Medicinal Activities: Antispasmodic Common Uses: Eye problems (given internally)

主要药用活性：解痉 常见用途：眼部问题（内服）

Safety/Cautions/Contraindications: None found

安全/注意事项/禁忌症：未发现

BLUE COHOSH

蓝升麻

Caulophyllum thalictroides

仙草

Primary Medicinal Activities: Uterine tonic, antispasmodic, promotes menstrual discharge, antirheumatic

主要药用活性：子宫补品、解痉、促进月经排出、抗风湿

Common Uses: Can be used during pregnancy in humans anytime there is threat of miscarriage. It eases false labor

pains. It can be used in cases of coughs, colic, and asthma and to ease rheumatic pains.

常见用途：可在人类怀孕期间任何有流产威胁的情况下使用。它可以减轻假性阵痛。它可用于治疗咳嗽、

绞痛和哮喘，并缓解风湿痛。

Caulophyllum thalictroides

仙草

Safety/Cautions/Contraindications: Blue cohosh should be taken only in small doses during pregnancy and used

only under professional guidance.

安全/注意事项/禁忌症：怀孕期间只能小剂量服用蓝升麻，并且只能在专业指导下使用。

=== PAGE 346 ===
BONESET

博内塞特

Eupatorium perfoliatum

穿叶紫茎泽兰

Primary Medicinal Activities: Relaxing to mucous membranes, antispasmodic, expectorant, mild laxative, tonic,

increases perspiration

主要药用活性： 放松粘膜、解痉、祛痰、温和泻药、滋补、增加排汗

Common Uses: Pain reliever, upper respiratory tract, bronchitis

常见用途：止痛药、上呼吸道、支气管炎

Safety/Cautions/Contraindications: Some Eupatorium spp. may contain PAs. They should not be taken by

pregnant or lactating individuals.

安全/注意事项/禁忌症：一些紫茎泽兰属植物。可能含有 PA。孕妇或哺乳期人士不应服用它们。

Eupatorium perfoliatum

穿叶紫茎泽兰

=== PAGE 347 ===
BOSWELLIA

乳香

Boswellia serrata

齿叶乳香

Primary Medicinal Activities: Anti-inflammatory; diuretic; lubricates, soothes, and protects internal mucous

membranes; helps with blood cleansing; appetite stimulant; helps reduce arthritic inflammation; promotes menstrual

discharge; analgesic, antifungal

主要药用活性：抗炎；利尿剂;润滑、舒缓和保护内部粘膜；有助于血液净化；食欲兴奋剂；有助于减少关

节炎炎症；促进月经排出；镇痛、抗真菌

Common Uses: Liver disorders, bronchial asthma, ringworm, arthritis, lung diseases, and diarrhea. Researchers

found that the resin was as effective as sulfasalazine, the standard drug treatment for ulcerative colitis. (I. Gupta et

al., “Effects of Boswellia serrata gum resin in patients with ulcerative colitis,” Eur. J. Med. Res. 2, no. 1 [1991]: 37–

43.)

常见用途：肝脏疾病、支气管哮喘、癣、关节炎、肺部疾病和腹泻。研究人员发现，这种树脂与柳氮磺吡

啶（治疗溃疡性结肠炎的标准药物）一样有效。 （I. Gupta 等人，“齿叶乳香树胶脂对溃疡性结肠炎患者的

影响”，Eur. J. Med. Res. 2，第 1 期 [1991]：37-43。）

Safety/Cautions/Contraindications: None found

安全/注意事项/禁忌症：未发现

=== PAGE 348 ===
CARAWAY

香芹籽

Carum carvi

葛缕子

Primary Medicinal Activities: Expectorant, expels intestinal gas, antispasmodic, stimulates milk production,

aromatic, astringent, promotes menstrual discharge

主要药用活性：祛痰、排出肠气、解痉、刺激产奶、芳香、收敛、促进月经排出

Common Uses: Stimulates appetite; helps to ease diarrhea, flatulence, and colic; bronchitis; helps increase milk in

nursing mothers

常见用途：刺激食欲；有助于缓解腹泻、胀气和绞痛；支气管炎;有助于增加哺乳期母亲的乳汁

Safety/Cautions/Contraindications: None found

安全/注意事项/禁忌症：未发现

=== PAGE 349 ===
CASCARA SAGRADA

卡斯卡拉圣殿

Rhamnus purshiana

鼠李

Primary Medicinal Activities: Bitter tonic, purgative

主要药用活性：苦补品、泻药

Common Uses: A strong laxative that should be reserved for situations where immediate relief from constipation is

necessary and where other, less purgative, measures have failed

常见用途：一种强效泻药，应保留用于需要立即缓解便秘且其他泻药效果较差的措施失败的情况

Safety/Cautions/Contraindications: Should not be used in pregnant or nursing animals as its laxative effects are

passed on through the milk. (Varro E. Tyler, Herbs of Choice: The Therapeutic Use of Phytomedicinals

[Binghamton, N.Y.: Pharmaceutical Products Press, 1994].)

安全/注意事项/禁忌症：不应用于怀孕或哺乳的动物，因为其通便作用通过乳汁传递。 （Varro E. Tyler，草

药选择：植物药物的治疗用途 [Binghamton，纽约：Pharmaceutical Products Press，1994]。）

=== PAGE 350 ===
CAT’S CLAW

猫爪

Uncaria tomentosa

毛钩藤

Primary Medicinal Activities: Antiarrhythmic, anti-inflammatory, antitumor, antispasmodic, antiarthritic, reduces

fever, helps with blood cleansing, immunostimulant, antimicrobial

主要药用活性：抗心律失常、抗炎、抗肿瘤、解痉、抗关节炎、退烧、帮助血液净化、免疫增强、抗菌

Common Uses: Abscesses, arthritis, asthma, cancer, chemotherapy side effects, contraception, fevers, gastric ulcers,

hemorrhages, inflammations, kidney cleanser, recovery from birthing, rheumatism, urinary tract infections, wounds,

boosts the immune system at the onset of viral infection.

常见用途：脓肿、关节炎、哮喘、癌症、化疗副作用、避孕、发烧、胃溃疡、出血、炎症、肾脏清洁剂、

产后恢复、风湿病、尿路感染、伤口、在病毒发作时增强免疫系统感染。

Alternatives: Organically cultivated echinacea serves as a more earth-friendly alternative because cat’s claw is

harvested from the wilds of imperiled South American rain forests.

替代方案：有机种植的紫锥菊是一种对地球更加友好的替代方案，因为猫爪草是从濒临灭绝的南美雨林的

野外收获的。

Veterinary Common Uses: Allergic reactions to insect bites (hair loss and itching); dull coat, hair loss, lethargy,

poor skin; inflammation of the muscle, prostate, stomach; mammary tumors; osteoarthritis; parvovirus; dermatitis;

inflammation of the vertebrae (spondylitis); arthritis. (Kenneth Jones, University Mayor de San Marcos, Lima, Peru,

Cat’s Claw—Healing Vine of Peru [Seattle, Wash.: Sylvan Press 1995].)

兽医常见用途：昆虫叮咬的过敏反应（脱发和瘙痒）；皮毛暗淡、脱发、嗜睡、皮肤差；肌肉、前列腺、

胃的炎症;乳腺肿瘤；骨关节炎;细小病毒；皮炎;椎骨炎症（脊柱炎）;关节炎。 （肯尼思·琼斯，秘鲁利马圣

马科斯大学市长，《猫爪——秘鲁的治愈藤蔓》[西雅图，华盛顿州：Sylvan Press 1995]。）

Safety/Cautions/Contraindications: None found

安全/注意事项/禁忌症：未发现

=== PAGE 351 ===
CELERY

芹菜

Apium graveolens

芹菜

Primary Medicinal Activities: Diuretic, sedative, expels intestinal gas, antirheumatic Common Uses: Arthritis,

rheumatism

主要药用活性： 利尿、镇静、排出肠道气体、抗风湿 常见用途： 关节炎、风湿病

Safety/Cautions/Contraindications: Celery seed should be used with caution and moderation in pregnant animals

or those with preexisting kidney disease.

安全/注意事项/禁忌症：对于怀孕动物或患有肾脏疾病的动物，应谨慎并适量使用芹菜籽。

=== PAGE 352 ===
CORIANDER

香菜

Coriandrum sativum

芫荽

Primary Medicinal Activities: Aromatic, expels intestinal gas

主要药用活性：芳香，排出肠道气体

Common Uses: Flatulence, spasms from colic pain, stimulates digestive secretions and increases appetite

常见用途：肠胃胀气、绞痛引起的痉挛、刺激消化液分泌并增加食欲

Safety/Cautions/Contraindications: None found

安全/注意事项/禁忌症：未发现

=== PAGE 353 ===
CRANBERRY

蔓越莓

Vaccinium macrocarpon

大果越橘

Primary Medicinal Activities: Antiseptic

主要药用活性：防腐剂

Common Uses: Prevents urinary tract infections caused by E. coli by preventing the microorganisms from adhering

to the epithelial cells of the urinary tract. (A. E. Sabota, Journal of Urology 131 [1984]: 1013–6; M. S. Soloway and

R. A. Smith, JAMA 260 [1988]: 1465.)

常见用途：通过防止微生物粘附在尿路上皮细胞上来预防大肠杆菌引起的尿路感染。 （A. E. Sabota，泌尿

学杂志 131 [1984]：1013–6；M. S. Soloway 和 R. A. Smith，JAMA 260 [1988]：1465。）

Safety/Cautions/Contraindications: Use with caution in animals with kidney inflammation

安全/注意事项/禁忌症：患有肾脏炎症的动物慎用

=== PAGE 354 ===
DEVIL’S CLAW

恶魔之爪

Harpagophytum procumbrens

毛叶兰

Primary Medicinal Activities: soothes pain (anodyne), anti-inflammatory Common Uses: Reduces inflammation

in cases of arthritis but may not always be effective

主要药用活性：舒缓疼痛（镇痛）、抗炎 常见用途：减少关节炎的炎症，但可能并不总是有效

Safety/Cautions/Contraindications: Devil’s claw is not to be taken by diabetics because it has a hypoglycemic

action. Excessive doses may interfere with treatment for cardiac disorders and with hyperand hypotensive therapies.

It should not be taken during pregnancy because it is oxytocic (induces contractions) in animals. (R. Mabey, The

Complete New Herbal [London: Elm Tree Books, 1988].)

安全/注意事项/禁忌症：魔鬼爪不适合糖尿病患者服用，因为它具有降血糖作用。过量的剂量可能会干扰心

脏疾病的治疗以及高血压和低血压的治疗。它不应该在怀孕期间服用，因为它对动物有催产作用（引起宫

缩）。 （R. Mabey，《完整的新草药》[伦敦：Elm Tree Books，1988]。）

=== PAGE 355 ===
EYEBRIGHT

小米

Euphrasia officinalis

狼毒

Primary Medicinal Activities: Anti-inflammatory, astringent

主要药用活性：抗炎、收敛

Common Uses: Conjunctivitis, astringent, nasal catarrh

常见用途：结膜炎、收敛剂、鼻粘膜炎

Availability: Use only organically cultivated eyebright (or grow it yourself).

可用性：仅使用有机栽培的小米草（或自己种植）。

Safety/Cautions/Contraindications: It is best to avoid eyebright during pregnancy and lactation. This herb may be

compromised in the wild. Please use only organically cultivated sources, or use other herbs instead.

安全/注意事项/禁忌症：怀孕和哺乳期间最好避免使用眼睛。这种草药在野外可能会受到损害。请仅使用有

机栽培来源，或使用其他草药代替。

=== PAGE 356 ===
EVENING PRIMROSE

月见草

Oenothera spp.

月见草属

Primary Medicinal Activities: Sedative, astringent

主要药用活性：镇静、收敛

Common Uses: Asthmatic coughs, gastrointestinal disorders, psoriasis, excess cholesterol in the blood

(hypercholesterolemia), arthritis, diabetic neuropathy

常见用途：哮喘咳嗽、胃肠道疾病、牛皮癣、血液中胆固醇过多（高胆固醇血症）、关节炎、糖尿病神经

病变

Safety/Cautions/Contraindications: May have the potential to manifest temporal lobe epilepsy in those receiving

epileptogenic drugs. (Melvyn R. Werbach and Michael T. Murray, Botanical Influences on Illness, a Sourcebook of

Clinical Research [Tarzana, Calif.: Third Line Press, 1994], 112.)

安全/注意事项/禁忌症：接受致癫痫药物的患者可能有可能出现颞叶癫痫。 （Melvyn R. Werbach 和 Michael

T. Murray，植物对疾病的影响，临床研究资料集 [Tarzana，加利福尼亚州：Third Line Press，1994 年]，

112。）

Oenothera sp.

月见草属 sp.

=== PAGE 357 ===
EUCALYPTUS

桉树

Eucalyptus globulus

蓝桉

Primary Medicinal Activities: Antiseptic, reduces inflammation of respiratory mucosa Common Uses: Flea

prevention, bronchitis, asthma (inhaled through a vaporizer)

主要药用活性： 防腐剂，减少呼吸道粘膜炎症 常见用途： 预防跳蚤、支气管炎、哮喘（通过蒸发器吸入）

Safety/Cautions/Contraindications: Eucalyptus may antidote homeopathic treatments or remedies, so it should not

be used with homeopathic remedies. The oil should not be used unless suitably diluted. The oil should not be used at

all during pregnancy because it may interfere with existing hypoglycemic therapies.

安全/注意事项/禁忌症：桉树可能是顺势疗法或疗法的解毒剂，因此不应与顺势疗法一起使用。除非适当稀

释，否则不应使用该油。怀孕期间根本不应该使用这种油，因为它可能会干扰现有的降血糖疗法。

=== PAGE 358 ===
FENUGREEK

胡芦巴

Trigonella foenum-graecum

胡芦巴

Primary Medicinal Activities: Antiseptic; lubricates, soothes, and protects internal mucous membranes; tonic;

expectorant; stimulates milk production; reduces fever; laxative; nutritive; lowers blood sugar

主要药用活性：防腐剂；润滑、舒缓和保护内部粘膜；补品;祛痰剂；刺激产奶量；退烧；泻药;有营养；降

低血糖

Common Uses: Antidiabetic and anticholesterolemic activities; stimulates milk in lactating mothers

常见用途：抗糖尿病和抗胆固醇活性；刺激哺乳期母亲的乳汁分泌

Safety/Cautions/Contraindications: May interfere with hypoglycemic therapies. The absorption of drugs taken

concomitantly may be affected because of the high mucilaginous fiber content. It is reputed to induce contractions

(oxytocic); in vitro uterine stimulant activity has been documented. (Carol A. Newall, Linda A. Anderson, and J.

David Phillipson, Herbal Medicines, a Guide for Health Care Professionals [London, England: Pharmaceutical

Products Press, 1996], 118.)

安全/注意事项/禁忌症：可能干扰降血糖治疗。由于粘液纤维含量高，同时服用的药物的吸收可能会受到影

响。它被认为可以引起宫缩（催产）；体外子宫刺激活性已被记录。 （Carol A. Newall、Linda A. Anderson

和 J. David Phillipson，《草药，医疗保健专业人员指南》[英国伦敦：药品出版社，1996 年]，118。）

=== PAGE 359 ===
FLEABANE

蓬

Conyza canadensis

加拿大芋

Primary Medicinal Activities: Stops bleeding, possible flea repellent

主要药用活性：止血，可能驱跳蚤

Common Uses: This common weed traditionally has been used as a broad-spectrum insecticide. The plant contains

considerable amounts of limonene, a compound known for its flea-killing properties. However, little is known about

the totality of the plant’s chemistry or the safety of this herb. Aside from what we know about the limonene content

of fleabane, scientific study is still lacking.

常见用途：这种常见杂草传统上被用作广谱杀虫剂。该植物含有大量柠檬烯，这是一种以其杀跳蚤特性而

闻名的化合物。然而，人们对这种植物的整体化学成分或这种草药的安全性知之甚少。除了我们对蓬蓬柠

檬烯含量的了解外，仍然缺乏科学研究。

Safety/Cautions/Contraindications: Fleabane may cause spontaneous nasal and upper respiratory irritation in

horses. It is highly allergenic.

安全/注意事项/禁忌症：蓬蓬可能会引起马自发的鼻腔和上呼吸道刺激。它具有高度过敏性。

=== PAGE 360 ===
GENTIAN

龙胆

Gentiana lutea

黄龙胆

Primary Medicinal Activities: Bitter, promotes salivation (sialagogue), stimulates bile production, and is a gastric

stimulant Common Uses: Stimulates the digestive secretions in the mouth and stomach to aid digestion and increase

appetite. Helps with flatulence and dyspepsia.

主要药用活性：苦，促进唾液分泌（催涎剂），刺激胆汁产生，是一种胃兴奋剂。 常见用途：刺激口腔和

胃中的消化分泌物，以帮助消化和增加食欲。有助于缓解胀气和消化不良。

Safety/Cautions/Contraindications: Gentian may cause headache in certain predisposed individuals (Varro E.

Tyler, Herbs of Choice: The Therapeutic Use of Phytomedicinals [Binghamton, N.Y.: Pharmaceutical Products

Press, 1994]). Gentian should not be used in individuals who have high blood pressure.

安全/注意事项/禁忌症：龙胆草可能会导致某些易感个体头痛（Varro E. Tyler，Herbs of Choice：The

Therapeutic Use of Phytomedicinals [Binghamton，N.Y.：Pharmaceutical Products Press，1994]）。龙胆草不应

用于患有高血压的人。

=== PAGE 361 ===
GINGER

姜

Zingiber officinale

生姜

Primary Medicinal Activities: Expels internal gas, stimulant, increases perspiration, causes redness of the skin

主要药用活性：排出体内气体、兴奋剂、增加排汗、导致皮肤发红

Common Uses: Indigestion (dyspepsia), flatulence, and colic. Used to increase peripheral circulation. May help in

some cases of motion sickness. In small animals, the pungent constituents have been shown to be cardiotonic, fever

reducing, analgesic, antitussive, and sedative.

常见用途：消化不良（消化不良）、胀气和绞痛。用于增加末梢循环。可能对某些晕动病有帮助。在小动

物中，辛辣成分已被证明具有强心、退烧、镇痛、镇咳和镇静作用。

Safety/Cautions/Contraindications: It has been reported to tend to increase the tone of the heart muscle and blood

vessels (cardiotonic) and to inhibit blood clotting in vitro. It also has hypoglycemic activity in in vivo studies.

Excessive doses may interfere with existing cardiac, antidiabetic, or anticoagulant therapies. Doses that greatly

exceed those normally found in foods should not be administered during pregnancy or lactation.

安全/注意事项/禁忌症：据报道，它往往会增加心肌和血管的张力（强心剂）并抑制体外血液凝固。在体内

研究中它还具有降血糖活性。过量的剂量可能会干扰现有的心脏、抗糖尿病或抗凝治疗。怀孕或哺乳期间

不应服用大大超过食物中正常剂量的剂量。

=== PAGE 362 ===
GINSENG

参

Panax spp.

人参属

Primary Medicinal Activities: Increases physical and mental performance, antidepressive

主要药用活性：提高身心表现，抗抑郁

Common Uses: Raises low blood pressure, helps to eliminate exhaustion and weakness

常见用途：提高低血压，有助于消除疲劳和虚弱

Safety/Cautions/Contraindications: Ginseng should not be used in cases of high blood pressure and may, on

occasion, produce headaches. It is contraindicated during acute illness, any form of hemorrhage, and during the

acute period of coronary thrombosis. It should be avoided by those who are highly nervous, energetic, and tense.

安全/注意事项/禁忌症：人参不应用于高血压患者，有时可能会引起头痛。急性疾病、任何形式的出血以及

冠状动脉血栓形成的急性期禁用。高度紧张、精力充沛、紧张的人应避免食用。

=== PAGE 363 ===
KAVA KAVA

卡瓦卡瓦

Piper methysticum

胡椒

Primary Medicinal Activities: Antispasmodic, sedative, hypnotic, anticonvulsive Common Uses: It may be useful

for epileptic animals and as a sedative or antispasmodic for animals who have nervous disorders that involve muscle

spasms and general tightness.

主要药用活性：解痉、镇静、催眠、抗惊厥 常见用途：对于癫痫动物可能有用，对于患有涉及肌肉痉挛和

全身紧张的神经疾病的动物可作为镇静剂或解痉药。

Safety/Cautions/Contraindications: Preliminary studies indicate that this herb can be damaging to the liver if used

in excess. Kava kava appears to be safe if used prudently and in moderation, but little is known about its

effectiveness or safety in animals.

安全/注意事项/禁忌症：初步研究表明，如果过量使用，这种草药可能会损害肝脏。如果谨慎、适量使用卡

瓦卡瓦似乎是安全的，但对其在动物中的有效性或安全性知之甚少。

=== PAGE 364 ===
KELP

海带

Fucus vesiculosus

墨角藻

Primary Medicinal Activities: Antihypothyroid, antirheumatic

主要药物活性：抗甲状腺功能减退、抗风湿

Common Uses: Obesity, goiter, arthritis, and rheumatism

常见用途：肥胖、甲状腺肿、关节炎和风湿病

Safety/Cautions/Contraindications: Prolonged ingestion may reduce gastrointestinal iron absorption resulting in a

slow reduction in hemoglobin, packed cell volume, and serum iron concentrations. Prolonged ingestion may also

affect absorption of sodium and potassium ions and cause diarrhea. (Carol A. Newall, Linda A. Anderson, and J.

David Phillipson, Herbal Medicines, a Guide for Health Care Professionals [London, England: Pharmaceutical

Products Press, 1996], 125.)

安全/注意事项/禁忌症：长期摄入可能会减少胃肠道铁吸收，导致血红蛋白、细胞压积和血清铁浓度缓慢降

低。长期摄入还可能影响钠、钾离子的吸收，引起腹泻。 （Carol A. Newall、Linda A. Anderson 和 J. David

Phillipson，《草药，医疗保健专业人员指南》[英国伦敦：药品出版社，1996 年]，125。）

=== PAGE 365 ===
LEMON BALM

柠檬唇膏

Melissa officinalis

香蜂草

Primary Medicinal Activities: Slows thyroid function, lowers blood pressure, increases perspiration, anti-

spasmodic, antidepressive, expels intestinal gas

主要药用活性：减缓甲状腺功能，降低血压，增加排汗，抗痉挛，抗抑郁，排出肠道气体

Melissa officinalis

香蜂草

Common Uses: Lemon balm is believed to block iodide uptake and inhibit antibody attachment at thyroid cells,

therefore it may be useful for decreasing thyroid output in felines with overactive thyroid glands (hyperthyroid).

Also, it is useful in some cases of depression, anxiety, indigestion, and for lowering blood pressure.

常见用途：香蜂草被认为可以阻止碘的吸收并抑制甲状腺细胞上的抗体附着，因此它可能有助于减少甲状

腺过度活跃（甲状腺功能亢进）的猫科动物的甲状腺输出。此外，它对某些抑郁、焦虑、消化不良和降低

血压也很有用。

Safety/Cautions/Contraindications: Use with caution and moderation in pregnant animals. Contraindicated in

animals with hypothyroid conditions.

安全/注意事项/禁忌症：对怀孕动物谨慎、适量使用。患有甲状腺功能减退症的动物禁用。

=== PAGE 366 ===
LOBELIA

半边莲

Lobelia inflata

半边莲

Primary Medicinal Activities: Antiasthmatic, respiratory stimulant, antispasmodic, expectorant, induces vomiting,

increases perspiration

主要药用活性：平喘、呼吸兴奋、解痉、祛痰、诱导呕吐、增加排汗

Common Uses: Used in bronchitis and asthma. Lobelia has a general depressant action on the autonomic and

central nervous systems, as well as on neuromuscular action.

常见用途：用于支气管炎和哮喘。半边莲对自主神经和中枢神经系统以及神经肌肉作用具有普遍的抑制作

用。

Safety/Cautions/Contraindications: Lobeline, a nicotine-like constituent of lobelia, may stimulate respiration in

animals; in higher doses it causes vomiting. It should not be used during pregnancy or lactation. Lobelia is similar in

action to nicotine.

安全/注意事项/禁忌症：半边莲是半边莲中的一种尼古丁样成分，可能会刺激动物的呼吸；高剂量会引起呕

吐。怀孕或哺乳期间不应使用。半边莲的作用与尼古丁相似。

Lobelia inflata

半边莲

=== PAGE 367 ===
LOVAGE

爱维吉

Levisticum officinale

药用植物

Primary Medicinal Activities: Diuretic, expels intestinal gas

主要药用活性： 利尿，排出肠道气体

Common Uses: Relieves gas pains

常见用途：缓解胀气疼痛

Safety/Cautions/Contraindications: Lovage should not be used in cases of kidney disease. Furocoumarins,

chemical compounds that may cause photosensitization, are present in the oil. (Varro E. Tyler, Herbs of Choice: The

Therapeutic Use of Phytomedicinals [Binghamton, N.Y.: Pharmaceutical Products Press, 1994], 78.)

安全/注意事项/禁忌症：肾病患者不应使用独活草。油中含有呋喃香豆素，一种可能引起光敏化的化合物。

（Varro E. Tyler，草药选择：植物药物的治疗用途 [Binghamton，纽约：Pharmaceutical Products Press，

1994]，78。）

=== PAGE 368 ===
MEADOWSWEET

绣线菊

Filipendula ulmaria

凤尾藻

Primary Medicinal Activities: Anti-inflammatory, stimulates the stomach, alleviates vomiting, astringent,

antirheumatic

主要药用活性： 抗炎、刺激胃、缓解呕吐、收敛、抗风湿

Common Uses: Protects and soothes the mucous membranes of the digestive tract, reduces acidity, and eases

nausea. Meadowsweet can be used for fever and the pain of rheumatism. It has been reported to increase bronchial

tone in cats. (O. D. Barnaulove et al., “Preliminary Evaluation of the Spasmolytic Properties of Some Natural

Compounds and Galenic Preparations,” Rastit. Resur. 14 [1978]: 573–9.)

常见用途：保护和舒缓消化道粘膜，降低酸度，缓解恶心。绣线菊可用于治疗发烧和风湿疼痛。据报道，

它可以增加猫的支气管张力。 （O. D. Barnaulove 等人，“一些天然化合物和盖仑制剂的解痉特性的初步评

估”，Rastit. Resur. 14 [1978]: 573–9。）

Safety/Cautions/Contraindications: Meadowsweet contains salicylic acid compounds (spiraein and gaultherin), so

it should not be used for cats or other animals who are allergic or sensitive to aspirin. Other than that, no side effects

are documented. Meadowsweet should be avoided during pregnancy and lactation.

安全/注意事项/禁忌症：绣线菊含有水杨酸化合物（螺旋藻素和高斯林），因此不应该用于对阿司匹林过敏

或敏感的猫或其他动物。除此之外，没有任何副作用被记录。怀孕和哺乳期间应避免使用绣线菊。

=== PAGE 369 ===
MYRRH

没药

Commiphora molmol

没药

Primary Medicinal Activities: Astringent, antimicrobial, expels intestinal gas, expectorant, wound healing

主要药用活性：收敛、抗菌、排出肠气、祛痰、伤口愈合

Common Uses: Mouth ulcers, gingivitis, sinusitis, respiratory problems, brucellosis, and wounds and abrasions

常见用途：口腔溃疡、牙龈炎、鼻窦炎、呼吸道疾病、布鲁氏菌病、伤口和擦伤

Safety/Cautions/Contraindications: None found

安全/注意事项/禁忌症：未发现

=== PAGE 370 ===
OREGANO

牛至

Oreganum vulgare or O. heracleoticum Primary Medicinal Activities: Antispasmodic, expectorant, digestive, mild

tranquilizer

牛至或 O. heracleoticum 主要药用活性：解痉、祛痰、消化、温和镇静剂

Common Uses: May assist in expelling parasites from the digestive tract

常见用途：可能有助于从消化道排出寄生虫

Safety/Cautions/Contraindications: May stimulate the uterus if used in medicinal quantities

安全/注意事项/禁忌症：如果以药用量使用，可能会刺激子宫

=== PAGE 371 ===
PASSIONFLOWER

西番莲

Passiflora incarnata

西番莲

Primary Medicinal Activities: Mild hypnotic, sedative, antispasmodic, and pain reliever

主要药用活性： 轻度催眠、镇静、解痉和止痛

Common Uses: Seizures, hysteria, neuralgia, insomnia, spasmodic asthma

常见用途：癫痫、歇斯底里、神经痛、失眠、痉挛性哮喘

Safety/Cautions/Contraindications: No reported side effects. Excessive doses may cause sedation and may

potentiate MAOI therapy. Uterine stimulant activity in animal studies has been reported. (Carol A. Newall, Linda A.

Anderson, and J. David Phillipson, Herbal Medicines, a Guide for Health Care Professionals [London, England:

Pharmaceutical Products Press, 1996], 206.)

安全/注意事项/禁忌症：无副作用报告。过量剂量可能会导致镇静并可能增强 MAOI 治疗。动物研究中已有

子宫刺激活性的报道。 （Carol A. Newall、Linda A. Anderson 和 J. David Phillipson，《草药，医疗保健专业

人员指南》[英国伦敦：药品出版社，1996 年]，206。）

=== PAGE 372 ===
PENNYROYAL

彭尼皇家

Mentha pulegium

薄荷

Primary Medicinal Activities: Promotes menstrual discharge, increases perspiration, expels intestinal gas,

stimulant

主要药用活性：促进月经排出、增加排汗、排出肠道气体、兴奋剂

Common Uses: The weak tea as a flea repellent in nonpregnant, nonlactating animals

常见用途：淡茶作为非怀孕、非哺乳动物的跳蚤驱避剂

Safety/Cautions/Contraindications: The oil should be avoided in animals because it is strong and can cause death.

The abortion inducing effects are reliable only in nearlethal dosages. (Varro E. Tyler, Herbs of Choice: The

Therapeutic Use of Phytomedicinals [Binghamton, N.Y.: Pharmaceutical Products Press, 1994].) It is toxic to dogs

and cats at high doses. (M. Sudekum et al., “Pennyroyal Oil Toxicosis in a Dog,” J. Am. Vet. Med. Assoc. 200, no. 6

[March 15, 1992]: 817–8.) It should not be used in animals with existing kidney disease. Use the herb (not the oil)

topically with great caution only in nonpregnant, nonlactating adults. Pennyroyal herb teas have been reported to be

used without side effects. (J. B. Sullivan et al., “Pennyroyal Oil Poisoning and Hepatotoxicity,” JAMA 242 [1979]:

2873.)

安全/注意事项/禁忌症：应避免将这种油用于动物，因为它的强度很强，可能导致死亡。只有在接近致死的

剂量下，诱导流产的效果才是可靠的。 （Varro E. Tyler，Herbs of Choice：植物药物的治疗用途

[Binghamton，N.Y.：Pharmaceutical Products Press，1994]。）高剂量时对狗和猫有毒。 （M. Sudekum 等

人，“狗的彭尼罗油中毒”，J. Am. Vet. Med. Assoc. 200，第 6 期 [1992 年 3 月 15 日]：817–8。）患有肾脏疾

病的动物。仅在非怀孕、非哺乳期的成人中局部使用草药（而不是油）时要格外小心。据报道，使用薄荷

草茶没有副作用。 （J. B. Sullivan 等人，“Pennyroyal 油中毒和肝毒性”，JAMA 242 [1979]：2873。）

=== PAGE 373 ===
PEPPERMINT

薄荷

Mentha piperita

胡椒薄荷

Primary Medicinal Activities: Alleviates vomiting, expels intestinal gas, moderates nerve transmissions, antiseptic,

increases perspiration, analgesic, astringent, stimulates bile production, stimulates the stomach

主要药用活性：缓解呕吐，排出肠道气体，调节神经传导，抗菌，增加排汗，镇痛，收敛，刺激胆汁产

生，刺激胃

Common Uses: Flatulence, intestinal colic, irritable bowel syndrome, nausea, vomiting, motion sickness

常见用途：肠胃胀气、肠绞痛、肠易激综合症、恶心、呕吐、晕车

Availability: Peppermint is easily grown in the garden but may take over, so plant it in a container. It can be

purchased readily at most stores, in tea, or dried in bulk form.

可用性：薄荷很容易在花园里种植，但可能会占据主导地位，因此请将其种植在容器中。它可以在大多数

商店轻松购买，可以以茶的形式购买，也可以以散装形式干燥。

Safety/Cautions/Contraindications: It may antidote homeopathic treatments, so it should not be used with

homeopathy.

安全/注意事项/禁忌症：它可能是顺势疗法的解毒剂，因此不应与顺势疗法一起使用。

=== PAGE 374 ===
PINEAPPLE WEED

菠萝草

Matricaria matricarioides

母菊

Primary Medicinal Activities: Expels intestinal gas, expels worms

主要药用活性：排出肠道气体、驱虫

Common Uses: Similar but weaker in action to chamomile. It may be effective in treating roundworms.

常见用途：与洋甘菊类似，但作用较弱。它可能对治疗蛔虫有效。

Safety/Cautions/Contraindications: Use with caution and moderation in pregnant animals.

安全/注意事项/禁忌症：对怀孕动物谨慎、适量使用。

=== PAGE 375 ===
PIPSISSEWA

皮普西西瓦

Chimaphila umbellata

伞形银鹛

Primary Medicinal Activities: Astringent, antibacterial, tonic, diuretic, strengthens kidney function

主要药用活性：收敛、抗菌、滋补、利尿、增强肾功能

Common Uses: Urinary tract astringent, infections, and inflammation of the kidneys

常见用途：尿路收敛、感染和肾脏炎症

Safety/Cautions/Contraindications: This herb may be compromised in the wild. Use only organically cultivated

pipsissewa or use other herbs such as pyrola instead.

安全/注意事项/禁忌症：这种草药在野外可能会受到损害。仅使用有机种植的 pipsissewa 或使用其他草药

（例如鹿蹄草）代替。

=== PAGE 376 ===
SAW PALMETTO

锯棕榈

Serenoa repens

锯棕榈

Primary Medicinal Activities: Diuretic, urinary antiseptic, strengthens and nourishes the prostate and smooth

muscle tissues of the urinary tract

主要药用活性： 利尿、泌尿道防腐剂、增强和滋养前列腺和泌尿道平滑肌组织

Common Uses: Cystitis, testicular atrophy, prostatic enlargement, and sex hormone disorders

常见用途：膀胱炎、睾丸萎缩、前列腺肥大和性激素紊乱

Safety/Cautions/Contraindications: Human studies report that saw palmetto is well tolerated. It may effect

existing hormonal therapies. Avoid during pregnancy and lactation.

安全/注意事项/禁忌症：人体研究报告表明锯棕榈具有良好的耐受性。它可能会影响现有的激素疗法。怀孕

和哺乳期间避免。

=== PAGE 377 ===
SENNA

塞纳

Cassia angustifolia or C. senna

决明或番泻叶

Primary Medicinal Activities: Cathartic, strong laxative

主要药用活性：泻药、强泻药

Common Uses: Powerful cathartic to relieve constipation

常见用途：强力泻药，缓解便秘

Safety/Cautions/Contraindications: Long-term use can cause dependence and can be detrimental. Prolonged use

or over dosage can result in diarrhea with excessive loss of potassium; an atonic nonfunctioning colon may also

develop. Senna should not be given in cases of intestinal obstruction or with undiagnosed abdominal symptoms.

Care should also be taken by those with inflammatory bowel disease. (J. E. F. Reynolds, ed., Martindale: The Extra

Pharmacopeia, 28th ed. [London: Pharmaceutical Products Press, 1982]; DeSmet PAGM, ed., et al., Adverse Effects

of Herbal Drugs vol. 2. [Berlin: Springer-Verlag, 1993].) Excessive use of senna may have an adverse effect on

cardiac function due to excessive potassium loss. Anthraquinones, the laxative component of senna, may cause

discoloration of the urine, which may interfere with diagnostic tests (J. E. F. Reynolds, ed., Martindale: The Extra

Pharmacopeia, 29th ed. [London: Pharmaceutical Products Press, 1989.)

安全/注意事项/禁忌症：长期使用可能导致依赖性并且可能有害。长期使用或过量服用可导致腹泻并导致钾

流失过多；也可能出现失张力、无功能的结肠。如果有肠梗阻或腹部症状未确诊，则不应服用番泻叶。患

有炎症性肠病的人也应该小心。 （J. E. F. Reynolds 编辑，Martindale：The Extra Pharmacopeia，第 28 版。

[伦敦：Pharmaceutical Products Press，1982]；DeSmet PAGM 等人，草药药物的副作用第 2 卷。[柏林：

Springer- Verlag, 1993].) 过量使用番泻叶可能会因钾流失过多而对心脏功能产生不利影响。蒽醌是番泻叶的

泻药成分，可能会导致尿液变色，从而干扰诊断测试（J. E. F. Reynolds 编辑，Martindale：The Extra

Pharmacopeia，第 29 版。[伦敦：Pharmaceutical Products Press，1989 年。）

Cassia sp.

决明子 sp。

=== PAGE 378 ===
SIBERIAN GINSENG

西伯利亚人参

Eleuthrococcus senticosus

刺五加

Primary Medicinal Activities: Improves the body’s resistance to stress, circulatory stimulant, dilates blood vessels

主要药用活性：提高身体的抗压能力，促进循环，扩张血管

Common Uses: Debility; helps the body to deal and adapt to stressful situations and some types of depression

常见用途：虚弱；帮助身体应对和适应压力情况和某些类型的抑郁症

Safety/Cautions/Contraindications: Siberian ginseng is safe but should be avoided in animals that have been

diagnosed with hypertension.

安全/注意事项/禁忌症：西伯利亚人参是安全的，但应避免用于已诊断患有高血压的动物。

=== PAGE 379 ===
SPIRULINA

螺旋藻

Spirulina spp.

螺旋藻属

Primary Medicinal Activities: Nutritive, helps with blood cleansing, tonic

主要药用活性：营养、帮助净化血液、滋补

Common Uses: A complete and digestible source of vitamin B complex, beta-carotene, protein, and a wide variety

of minerals. It serves as an excellent nutritional supplement for dogs, cats, and other animals.

常见用途：复合维生素 B、β-胡萝卜素、蛋白质和多种矿物质的完整且易消化的来源。它是狗、猫和其他动

物的极好的营养补充剂。

Safety/Cautions/Contraindications: Spirulina is safe for daily use in animals, but its nutrient content is so

concentrated that it can cause diarrhea and digestive upset if fed in excessive quantities. A daily dosage of ¼

teaspoon per pound of food is generally acceptable for most animals (⅛ teaspoon for cats).

安全/注意事项/禁忌症：螺旋藻对于动物日常使用是安全的，但其营养成分非常集中，如果过量喂食，可能

会导致腹泻和消化不良。对于大多数动物来说，每日每磅食物 ¼ 茶匙的剂量通常是可以接受的（猫为 ⅛ 茶

匙）。

=== PAGE 380 ===
TURKEY RHUBARB

火鸡大黄

Rheum palmatum

鸡掌大黄

Primary Medicinal Activities: Astringent, purgative, bitter

主要药用活性：涩、泻、苦

Common Uses: Constipation

常见用途：便秘

Safety/Cautions/Contraindications: Turkey rhubarb may color the urine yellow or red. It should be combined with

carminative herbs to prevent intestinal cramping.

安全/注意事项/禁忌症：火鸡大黄可能会使尿液呈黄色或红色。它应该与驱风草药结合使用，以防止肠道痉

挛。

=== PAGE 381 ===
TURMERIC

姜黄

Curcuma longa

姜黄

Primary Medicinal Activities: Helps with blood cleansing, analgesic, anticoagulant, antifungal, anti-inflammatory,

antiarthritic, antioxidant, antimicrobial, antiseptic, aromatic, astringent, stimulates bile production, circulatory,

promotes menstrual discharge, strengthens liver function, stimulant, wound healing

主要药用活性：帮助清洁血液、镇痛、抗凝、抗真菌、抗炎、抗关节炎、抗氧化、抗菌、防腐、芳香、收

敛、刺激胆汁产生、循环、促进月经排出、增强肝功能、兴奋剂、伤口愈合

Common Uses: Arthritis, asthma, blood clot inhibitor, cancer, candida, inflammation of the mucous membrane,

eczema, gastritis, excess cholesterol in the blood, jaundice, nausea, restorative after birth, trauma, uterine tumors

常见用途：关节炎、哮喘、血栓抑制剂、癌症、念珠菌、粘膜炎症、湿疹、胃炎、血液中胆固醇过多、黄

疸、恶心、产后恢复、创伤、子宫肿瘤

Safety/Cautions/Contraindications: Infrequently turmeric may cause gastric disturbances. Turmeric is

contraindicated in cases of bile duct blockage or gallstones. (Varro E. Tyler, Herbs of Choice: The Therapeutic Use

of Phytomedicinals [Binghamton, N.Y.: Pharmaceutical Products Press, 1994], 62.)

安全/注意事项/禁忌症：姜黄偶尔可能会引起胃部不适。胆管堵塞或胆结石时禁用姜黄。 （Varro E. Tyler，

草药选择：植物药物的治疗用途 [Binghamton，纽约：Pharmaceutical Products Press，1994]，62。）

=== PAGE 382 ===
USNEA

美国新能源协会

Usnea barbata

半枝松萝

Primary Medicinal Activities: Antibiotic, immunostimulant

主要药用活性：抗生素、免疫增强剂

Common Uses: Infections, mouthwash, wounds

常见用途：感染、漱口水、伤口

Safety/Cautions/Contraindications: Care needs to be taken that Usnea barbata is used and not some other types of

lichen that can be toxic.

安全/注意事项/禁忌症：需要注意使用半枝松萝，而不是其他可能有毒的地衣类型。

VERVAIN

马鞭草

Verbena officinalis

马鞭草

Primary Medicinal Activities: Sedative, nerve tonic, antispasmodic, supports liver functions

主要药用活性：镇静、神经滋补、解痉、支持肝功能

Common Uses: Seizures, for hepatic and gallbladder inflammation

常见用途：癫痫发作，用于肝脏和胆囊炎症

Safety/Cautions/Contraindications: None found

安全/注意事项/禁忌症：未发现

=== PAGE 383 ===
WHITE OAK BARK

白橡树皮

Quercus sp.

栎属物种。

Primary Medicinal Activities: Antiseptic, astringent, anti-inflammatory, stops bleeding, pain reliever, diuretic,

fungicide

主要药用活性： 防腐、收敛、抗炎、止血、止痛、利尿、杀菌

Common Uses: Can be used in small frequent doses in cases of acute diarrhea

常见用途：急性腹泻时可少量多次使用

Safety/Cautions/Contraindications: Excessive doses of white oak bark should be avoided, and it should be

avoided by pregnant and lactating adults.

安全/注意事项/禁忌症：应避免过量服用白橡树皮，孕妇和哺乳期成人也应避免服用。

=== PAGE 384 ===
WILD CHERRY BARK

野樱桃树皮

also known as Chokecherry

也称为苦樱桃

Prunus virginiana

弗吉尼亚李

Primary Medicinal Activities: Cough suppressant, astringent, expectorant, sedative

主要药用活性：镇咳、收敛、祛痰、镇静

Common Uses: Helpful in reducing symptoms of respiratory distress due to its powerful sedative action on the

cough reflex. Used as a respiratory sedative in acute conditions with hectic coughing, heat, rapid breathing, and

rapid pulse. It is used in many over-the-counter cough medicines.

常见用途：由于其对咳嗽反射具有强大的镇静作用，有助于减轻呼吸窘迫的症状。在剧烈咳嗽、发热、呼

吸急促和脉搏急促的急性病症中用作呼吸镇静剂。它用于许多非处方止咳药。

=== PAGE 385 ===
Safety/Cautions/Contraindications: Avoid during pregnancy. The seeds, bark, and leaves of this plant contain

hydrocyanic acid, which can cause severe diarrhea and vomiting if ingested.

安全/注意事项/禁忌症：怀孕期间避免。这种植物的种子、树皮和叶子含有氢氰酸，如果摄入会导致严重腹

泻和呕吐。

=== PAGE 386 ===
WILLOW

柳

Salix spp.

柳属

Primary Medicinal Activities: Anti-inflammatory, fever reducer, astringent, analgesic, and antiseptic

主要药用活性： 抗炎、退烧、收敛、镇痛和防腐

Common Uses: Pain after surgery, rheumatism, connective tissue inflammation, and arthritis

常见用途：手术后疼痛、风湿病、结缔组织炎症和关节炎

Safety/Cautions/Contraindications: Willow should not be given to cats without professional guidance because it

contains salicylic acid (aspirin), which can be fatal to cats.

安全/注意事项/禁忌症：未经专业指导，不应给猫服用柳树，因为它含有水杨酸（阿司匹林），对猫来说可

能是致命的。

=== PAGE 387 ===
WITCH HAZEL

金缕梅

Hamamelis virginiana

弗吉尼亚金缕梅

Primary Medicinal Activities: Astringent

主要药用活性：收敛剂

Common Uses: Swelling or dilation of veins and capillaries (varicosities), bleeding, diarrhea, dysentery

常见用途：静脉和毛细血管肿胀或扩张（静脉曲张）、出血、腹泻、痢疾

Safety/Cautions/Contraindications: The drugstore preparation is in alcohol and should not be administered

internally.

安全/注意事项/禁忌症：药店制剂含有酒精，不应内服。

=== PAGE 388 ===
AILMENTS AND TREATMENTS

疾病和治疗

=== PAGE 389 ===
Chapter 3

第3章

An Herbal Repertory for Animals

动物草药库

In this chapter we discuss some of the more common ailments an animal guardian may encounter in the holistic care

of animals. Each ailment is categorized by the body system in which it predominates—for example, kennel cough is

discussed in the “Respiratory Problems” section, and the issue of fleas is discussed under “Parasite-Related

Problems,” and so forth. For each ailment discussed, we include a variety of herbal treatments and other holistic

measures that you may find helpful in reaching a remedial or curative solution for your companion.

在本章中，我们讨论动物监护人在动物整体护理中可能遇到的一些更常见的疾病。每种疾病均按其占主导

地位的身体系统进行分类，例如，“呼吸问题”部分讨论犬窝咳，“寄生虫相关问题”部分讨论跳蚤问题，等

等。对于所讨论的每种疾病，我们都提供了各种草药治疗和其他整体措施，您可能会发现它们有助于为您

的伴侣找到治疗或治疗的解决方案。

To learn more about the herb choices we present in this chapter, and to determine whether one or more of these

choices may be appropriate for your companion, we recommend that you refer to chapter 3. There you will find

detailed information such as dosages and parts of the herbs used, preparation and administration options,

contraindications, and possible side effects of most of the herbs in the repertory. By no means, though, is this

repertory a complete representation of all measures of herbal healing. There are hundreds of potentially useful herbs

not discussed here, and we urge you to also access the excellent texts included in the bibliography. This repertory is

also not intended to serve as a substitute for the advice and care of a licensed veterinarian. Its purpose only is to

express our experiences and opinions. Please keep in mind that we are herbalists, not licensed animal care providers.

=== PAGE 390 ===
要了解有关本章中介绍的草药选择的更多信息，并确定其中一种或多种选择是否适合您的伴侣，我们建

议您参阅第 3 章。在那里您将找到剂量和部位等详细信息所用草药的种类、制备和给药选择、禁忌症以及

清单中大多数草药可能产生的副作用。然而，这个目录绝不是所有草药治疗措施的完整代表。这里没有讨

论数百种可能有用的草药，我们强烈建议您也访问参考书目中包含的优秀文本。该目录也不能替代有执照

的兽医的建议和护理。其目的仅是表达我们的经验和意见。请记住，我们是草药师，而不是有执照的动物

护理提供者。

=== PAGE 391 ===
ANXIETY, NERVOUSNESS, AND BEHAVIORAL PROBLEMS

焦虑、紧张和行为问题

HOLISTIC APPROACHES

整体方法

It is part of human nature to impose our ideals of acceptable behavior upon our beloved animals. Unfortunately,

though, many of us find it difficult to separate these ideals from what makes each animal special, unique, and happy.

Thousands of animals are euthanized each year because they were “untrainable” or “uncontrollable,” “barked too

much,” or were simply “too much to bear.” Many of these animals were put to death not because there was

something untreatably wrong with them but because their identities clashed with their caregivers’.

将我们可接受的行为理想强加给我们心爱的动物是人性的一部分。但不幸的是，我们中的许多人发现很难

将这些理想与每种动物的特殊、独特和快乐分开。每年有数以千计的动物被安乐死，因为它们“无法训

练”或“无法控制”，“吠叫太多”，或者只是“难以忍受”。许多动物被处死并不是因为它们出现了无法治愈的

问题，而是因为它们的身份与照顾者的身份发生冲突。

One of the greatest gifts offered to us by animals comes when we learn to look beyond our own needs to their

happiness. Our eight-year-old shepherd/husky dog, Willow, still barks incessantly, whines obnoxiously on trips to

the river, and jumps up onto house guests despite our continuing efforts to direct her toward our needs. Sometimes

we want to pull out our own hair and tie her snout shut with it, but instead we have developed patience and respect

for her personal nature. Willow is simply doing what she must do to be complete and happy, and while we are still

working on the guest-mauling issue, we have learned to accept her just the way she is. By reaching this level of

acceptance, we have been rewarded with the joy she brings to us as we rejoice with her in her rapturous journey

through life. Granted, there is a social stigma attached to certain types of animal behavior. However, before we step

in and choose what is best for us, we owe it to our animal companions to try to look at the world through their eyes

—perhaps even before we bring one of them home.

当我们学会超越自己的需求而关注动物的幸福时，动物给予我们的最伟大的礼物之一就出现了。我们八

岁的牧羊犬/哈士奇狗威洛（Willow）仍然不停地吠叫，在河边发出令人讨厌的哀鸣，尽管我们不断努力引

导她满足我们的需求，但它仍然会跳到客人身上。有时我们想拔掉自己的头发，用它把她的鼻子绑起来，

但相反，我们对她的个性产生了耐心和尊重。威洛只是在做她必须做的事情，让她变得完整和快乐，虽然

我们仍在解决殴打客人的问题，但我们已经学会了接受她本来的样子。通过达到这种接受程度，我们就得

到了她给我们带来的快乐，因为我们在她的人生旅程中与她一起欢欣鼓舞。诚然，某些类型的动物行为存

在社会耻辱。然而，在我们介入并选择最适合我们的东西之前，我们应该感谢我们的动物伙伴，尝试通过

他们的眼睛来看待世界——也许甚至在我们把其中一只带回家之前。

=== PAGE 392 ===
We owe it to our animal companions to look at the world through their eyes.

我们应该通过我们的动物伙伴的眼睛来看待世界。

Anxiety, nervousness, fear, occasional aggression, and depression are normal emotions of each and every

animal’s life. Some animals may be terrified of thunder, cars, vets, and stairs. Others may dislike children or other

animals. Active dog breeds (such as border collies) usually need wide-open spaces to run, and they become anxious

if confined. Many cats who would rather sleep than play become nervous wrecks during car rides. But if your

animal’s behavior changes suddenly or if his nervous tendencies worsen over time, your animal may be ill.

焦虑、紧张、恐惧、偶尔的攻击性和抑郁是每只动物生活中的正常情绪。有些动物可能害怕雷声、汽

车、兽医和楼梯。其他人可能不喜欢儿童或其他动物。活跃的犬种（例如边境牧羊犬）通常需要宽敞的空

间才能奔跑，如果受到限制，它们会变得焦虑。许多宁愿睡觉也不愿玩耍的猫在乘车时会变得神经衰弱。

但如果你的动物的行为突然改变，或者随着时间的推移，他的神经倾向恶化，你的动物可能生病了。

Contrary to conventional standards, holistic treatment of anxiety, nervousness, or behavioral problems does not

begin with the use of sedative or antidepressive medicines but with a critical examination of the caregiver’s

perspective of a situation. Are we really treating anxiety or aggression, or is the problem a symptom of something

deeper within the animal or his environment? Perhaps the problem is not really the animal’s at all but instead

emanates from the caregiver’s unfulfilled expectations.

与传统标准相反，焦虑、紧张或行为问题的整体治疗并不是从使用镇静剂或抗抑郁药物开始，而是从严

格检查护理人员对情况的看法开始。我们是否真的在治疗焦虑或攻击性，或者这个问题是动物或其环境中

更深层次的症状？也许问题根本不是动物的问题，而是源于照顾者未实现的期望。

=== PAGE 393 ===
CHRONIC PROBLEMS

慢性问题

Emotional, behavioral, and nervous disorders can result from nutritional deficiencies, endocrine disease, vaccinosis,

drug side effects, parasites, neurological disease, or psychological problems. Like humans, animals can suffer from

chronic depression that is secondary to chemical imbalances in the brain. But before treating depression with Prozac

(fluoxetine HCl) or Saint-John’s-wort, you should make a thorough assessment of the animal’s diet, health care

history, and environment. In most cases, the caregiver is likely to find that the problem is correctable with dietary

changes, some loving attention, and perhaps the correct homeopathic remedy.

情绪、行为和神经障碍可能由营养缺乏、内分泌疾病、疫苗接种、药物副作用、寄生虫、神经系统疾病或

心理问题引起。和人类一样，动物也可能患有慢性抑郁症，这是继发于大脑化学物质失衡的。但在用百忧

解（盐酸氟西汀）或圣约翰草治疗抑郁症之前，您应该对动物的饮食、医疗保健史和环境进行彻底评估。

在大多数情况下，护理人员可能会发现，通过改变饮食、一些关爱，或许还有正确的顺势疗法，问题是可

以纠正的。

Our approach toward aggression, depression (which is manifested by a lack of energy, whining, separation

anxiety, to name a few symptoms), nervousness, chronic anxiety, or hyperactivity always begins with changing the

animal’s diet (usually to raw food) and supplementing it with a complement of vitamins, minerals, and EFAs. If this

does not effect a positive change, the animal should be checked by a veterinarian for underlying physiological

disorders such as thyroid or adrenal gland problems, malabsorption, tumors, parasites, or diabetes mellitus. Once the

underlying causes are identified, they can be treated with applicable herbs, homeopathic remedies, aromatherapy,

flower essences, or nutritional therapies. Behavioral training, therapeutic touch, or a few sessions with a reputable

animal communicator may also yield good results.

我们应对攻击性、抑郁（表现为缺乏精力、抱怨、分离焦虑等症状）、紧张、慢性焦虑或多动的方法总

是从改变动物的饮食（通常是生食）和补充营养开始。它富含维生素、矿物质和必需脂肪酸。如果这没有

产生积极的变化，兽医应检查动物是否存在潜在的生理疾病，例如甲状腺或肾上腺问题、吸收不良、肿

瘤、寄生虫或糖尿病。一旦确定了根本原因，就可以采用适用的草药、顺势疗法、芳香疗法、花精或营养

疗法进行治疗。行为训练、治疗性触摸或与信誉良好的动物交流者进行几次课程也可能会产生良好的效

果。

In all chronic cases, the sedative herbs (e.g., valerian, skullcap, passionflower) should be limited to temporary

control of symptoms during times of added stress such as dreaded car rides to the veterinarian. We do not condone

the use of sedative herbs on a daily lifelong basis—not only because of potential side effects but also because they

may mask symptoms that are important to recognize in reaching curative solutions. Similarly, Saint-John’s-wort and

other antidepressants should be reserved for cases in which chronic depression is known to be secondary to brain

chemical imbalances.

在所有慢性病例中，镇静草药（例如缬草、黄芩、西番莲）应仅限于在压力增加（例如可怕的乘车去看

兽医）期间暂时控制症状。我们不容忍每天终生使用镇静草药——不仅因为潜在的副作用，还因为它们可

能掩盖在达成治疗方案时需要识别的重要症状。同样，圣约翰草和其他抗抑郁药应该保留用于已知慢性抑

郁症继发于大脑化学物质失衡的情况。

=== PAGE 394 ===
Determine the cause of any emotional or behavioral disorder before treating it.

在治疗之前确定任何情绪或行为障碍的原因。

Adaptogenic herbs such as Siberian ginseng, astragalus, and certified-organic ginseng, may be used continually in

moderation to boost the body’s functional abilities under stress.

西伯利亚人参、黄芪和经过认证的有机人参等适应性草药可以适量持续使用，以增强身体在压力下的功

能能力。

=== PAGE 395 ===
AGGRESSION AND DEPRESSION DISORDERS

攻击性和抑郁症

As of 1999, the use of Prozac had become almost as fashionable for treating aggressive animals as it had for humans

with chronic depression disorders. Likewise, Saint-John’s-wort had been touted as “the herbal alternative to Prozac,”

and it too had become popular for treating aggression and other behavioral and emotional disorders in animals.

截至 1999 年，使用百忧解治疗攻击性动物几乎和治疗患有慢性抑郁症的人类一样流行。同样，圣约翰草被

吹捧为“百忧解的草药替代品”，它也因治疗动物的攻击性和其他行为和情绪障碍而变得流行。

Although Saint-John’s-wort and psychotropic drugs may have a place in the treatment of certain disorders, they

are not the panaceas that some companies would like us to believe they are. Many experts believe that these

substances may actually cause a reverse effect in some animals. In Peter Neville’s acclaimed book Do Dogs Need

Shrinks? he cites case histories in which Prozac not only failed to curb aggression but seemingly increased it. One

case involved a two-year-old Staffordshire bull terrier who was given the drug to stop him from assaulting other

dogs. Initially the attacks stopped, but later the dog resumed his hostile behavior—and when he was taken off

Prozac, he became more aggressive than ever. Another case involved a three-year-old pointer who was given Prozac

to stop her from constantly chasing shadows. After three days she began attacking real dogs instead.

尽管圣约翰草和精神药物可能在某些疾病的治疗中占有一席之地，但它们并不是一些公司希望我们相信

的万能药。许多专家认为，这些物质实际上可能会对某些动物造成相反的影响。在彼得·内维尔（Peter

Neville）广受好评的著作《狗需要收缩吗？》中他引用了一些案例，其中百忧解不仅未能抑制攻击性，而

且似乎还增加了攻击性。其中一个案例涉及一只两岁的斯塔福德郡斗牛梗，它被注射药物是为了阻止它攻

击其他狗。最初，攻击停止了，但后来狗又恢复了敌对行为——当它戒掉百忧解后，它变得比以往任何时

候都更具攻击性。另一个案例涉及一只三岁的指示犬，她被给予百忧解以阻止她不断追逐阴影。三天后，

她开始攻击真正的狗。

Chamomile can help lift your pet’s mood naturally.

洋甘菊可以帮助您自然地提升宠物的情绪。

Compounding the potential problems of reverse or other adverse side effects is our limited ability to identify

accurately the causes of aggression and depression disorders in animals. The diagnosis needed to prudently prescribe

such drugs is severely limited by lack of verbal communication between animal and healer. In other words,

psychotropic drugs (and even the safer Saint-John’s-wort) are usually prescribed as a speculative “shot in the dark”

approach to suppression of symptoms, rather than as part of a curative solution that is based on holism.

=== PAGE 396 ===
我们准确识别动物攻击性和抑郁症原因的能力有限，这使得逆转或其他不良副作用的潜在问题变得更加

复杂。由于动物和治疗者之间缺乏口头交流，谨慎开出此类药物所需的诊断受到严重限制。换句话说，精

神药物（甚至是更安全的圣约翰草）通常被用作抑制症状的投机性“黑暗中的一枪”方法，而不是作为基于

整体论的治疗解决方案的一部分。

From a holistic perspective, treatment of aggression begins in the mind of the human guardian—not the animal.

The question of what may be missing from the animal’s well-being must be answered before anything else. Is the

animal receiving all of the nutrients needed for proper brain function? Was the animal abused or neglected in the

past? Is there a genetic predisposition to be addressed? Is there anything in the animal’s living environment that

might be contributing to the problem? Has the animal had adequate opportunities to socialize with other animals and

people? Is the animal’s behavior related to your own? (This is fairly common—animals often pick up the emotional

tone of their living environment.)

从整体角度来看，攻击性的治疗始于人类监护人的思想，而不是动物的思想。首先必须回答动物的福祉

可能缺失什么的问题。动物是否获得了大脑正常功能所需的所有营养？该动物过去是否受到虐待或忽视？

是否存在需要解决的遗传倾向？动物的生活环境中是否存在任何可能导致该问题的因素？该动物是否有足

够的机会与其他动物和人类交往？动物的行为与你自己的行为有关吗？ （这是相当常见的——动物经常会

适应其生活环境的情绪基调。）

After the animal’s diet is changed and supplemented, sessions with a good animal behaviorist are highly

recommended. Animal behaviorists do not teach “sit-stay” obedience but use their expert knowledge of animal

behavior and human-animal relationships to help identify and provide fulfillment of psychological requirements. For

instance, most dogs who are “fear biters” do not exhibit aggressive behavior out of hate or neurological disease but

because they are insecure in the hierarchy of their “pack.” These dogs feel that their human alpha leader is not in

charge of their surroundings and therefore feel constantly threatened. The animal behaviorists’ job in this situation is

to help the guardian and the animal define their positions as leader-protector (the human) and safe-subordinate pack

member (the dog). Horses and other herbivores, of course, have completely different psychologies—but they too can

find a happier coexistence with their humans with some help from a professional behavior trainer.

在改变动物的饮食并补充营养后，强烈建议与优秀的动物行为学家进行会谈。动物行为学家并不教授“静

坐”服从，而是利用他们对动物行为和人与动物关系的专业知识来帮助识别和满足心理需求。例如，大多

数“恐惧症患者”的狗并不是出于仇恨或神经系统疾病而表现出攻击性行为，而是因为它们在“群体”的等级制

度中缺乏安全感。这些狗认为他们的人类领袖无法掌控周围的环境，因此经常感到受到威胁。在这种情况

下，动物行为学家的工作是帮助监护人和动物确定他们作为领导者保护者（人类）和安全下属群体成员

（狗）的地位。当然，马和其他食草动物有着完全不同的心理——但在专业行为训练师的帮助下，它们也

可以找到与人类更快乐的共处。

Once you have begun a curative, long-term approach toward your animal’s aggression or depression, herbs can be

used for symptomatic relief during occasions when stress levels are particularly high. Although many herbalists

recommend valerian as a first choice herb for anxiety and aggression, it can have a reverse, sometimes stimulating,

effect in some animals. It’s a depressant and tends to compound irritability and depression. Instead of lifting the

subject’s spirit, it slows him down and often turns him into a groggy grump. So rather than reaching for valerian, we

opt for herbs such as passionflower, lemon balm, chamomile, or catnip that serve more as mood elevators. Rescue

Remedy (a flower essence formula) is also one of our first choices.

一旦您开始对动物的攻击性或抑郁症采取长期治疗方法，在压力水平特别高的情况下，可以使用草药来

缓解症状。尽管许多草药医生推荐缬草作为治疗焦虑和攻击性的首选草药，但它对某些动物可能产生相反

的、有时是刺激的作用。它是一种抑制剂，往往会加剧烦躁和抑郁。它非但没有提振对象的精神，反而减

慢了他的速度，常常让他变得昏昏沉沉、脾气暴躁。因此，我们不会选择缬草，而是选择西番莲、柠檬香

脂、洋甘菊或猫薄荷等草本植物，这些草本植物更能起到提升情绪的作用。 Rescue Remedy（花精配方）也

是我们的首选之一。

=== PAGE 397 ===
ACUTE NERVOUSNESS AND ANXIETY

极度紧张和焦虑

Everyone has his or her own sources of psychological stress. Some people get nervous and tense during airplane

landings. Our dogs get anxious and frightened while inside crowded buildings. Stephanie the cat trembles during the

first half-hour of long car rides.

每个人都有自己的心理压力来源。有些人在飞机着陆时会感到紧张和紧张。当我们的狗在拥挤的建筑物内

时会感到焦虑和害怕。斯蒂芬妮猫在长途汽车旅行的前半个小时里会发抖。

Herbs can be helpful for gently calming an animal during stressful occasions. In circumstances in which fear and

anxiety prohibit an otherwise passive animal from relaxing, valerian may induce just enough sedation to allow

napping. If the animal’s anxiety is causing him to hiss, spit, bite, or make other demonstrations of potential violence,

a dose or two of passionflower, lemon balm, or catnip may help normalize attitude and defuse the situation. If

nervousness is causing trembling or hypersensitivity to touch and sound, skullcap or oatstraw can be very effective

—especially if combined with valerian or passionflower. A small dose (0.25 milliliters per 30 pounds of an animal’s

body weight) of vervain (Verbena officinalis) tincture may reduce muscle twitching and restlessness, but too much

of this herb may have a reverse effect. In situations in which nervousness is causing an upset stomach, chamomile,

valerian, catnip, or a combination of all three may help induce relaxation and prevent vomiting.

在紧张的情况下，草药有助于温和地安抚动物。在恐惧和焦虑阻止其他被动动物放松的情况下，缬草可

能会产生足够的镇静作用以允许小睡。如果动物的焦虑导致它发出嘶嘶声、吐口水、咬人或做出其他潜在

的暴力行为，一两剂西番莲、柠檬香脂或猫薄荷可能有助于使其态度正常化并缓和局势。如果紧张导致颤

抖或对触觉和声音过敏，黄芩或燕麦草可能非常有效，尤其是与缬草或西番莲结合使用。小剂量（每 30 磅

动物体重 0.25 毫升）马鞭草 (Verbena officinalis) 酊剂可能会减少肌肉抽搐和不安，但过多的这种草药可能

会产生相反的效果。在紧张导致胃部不适的情况下，洋甘菊、缬草、猫薄荷或三者的组合可能有助于放松

并防止呕吐。

Before you reach for valerian or any other herb, try giving your pet a few drops of Rescue Remedy (flower

essence formula), which you can purchase at health food stores. You and your companion may be pleasantly

surprised.

在您使用缬草或任何其他草药之前，请尝试给您的宠物滴几滴 Rescue Remedy（花精配方），您可以在健

康食品商店购买。您和您的同伴可能会感到惊喜。

=== PAGE 398 ===
ARTHRITIS AND HIP DYSPLASIA

关节炎和髋关节发育不良

The term arthritis is general, referring to the inflammation of a joint. Polyarthritis is the inflammation of several

joints. Degenerative arthritis is a term that refers to the condition caused by the wearing of joints as the animal ages.

It is also known as degenerative joint disease and is sometimes caused by trauma to the joints, bones, ligaments, or

cartilage. Osteoarthritis is usually the result of some type of secondary damage to the joint structures. The damage

could result from rupture of ligaments, poor anatomical alignment, or joint dislocation.

关节炎一词是通用的，指的是关节的炎症。多关节炎是多个关节的炎症。退行性关节炎是一个术语，指随

着动物年龄的增长，关节磨损而引起的病症。它也被称为退行性关节疾病，有时是由关节、骨骼、韧带或

软骨损伤引起的。骨关节炎通常是关节结构某种类型的继发性损伤的结果。损伤可能是由于韧带断裂、解

剖结构排列不良或关节脱位造成的。

Inflammatory arthritis can be caused by an infection or an immune-mediated disease that leads to destructive

arthritic lesions. In other words, its onset is caused when the immune system actually turns against the body it’s

supposed to protect.

炎性关节炎可能是由感染或免疫介导的疾病引起的，这些疾病会导致破坏性关节炎病变。换句话说，当

免疫系统实际上转而对抗它应该保护的身体时，就会发生这种情况。

Catnip can help calm an animal who is suffering from anxiety.

猫薄荷可以帮助焦虑的动物平静下来。

Arthritis may also take the form of hip dysplasia. Hip dysplasia is the abnormal development of the “ball and

socket” joint of the hips of dogs. This condition may vary from a slightly abnormal hip joint to the actual dislocation

of the joint. There is controversy among holistic and homeopathic veterinarians regarding the underlying cause of

hip dysplasia. Some holistic veterinarians believe that this condition might be caused by vaccinations, specifically

the rabies vaccine. Others say it is caused by heredity—but if this is so, and conscientious breeders are taking care

not to breed animals who show signs of it, then why is it not being eliminated? Why is it appearing in an increasing

number of breeds more frequently? Despite the evidence, many veterinarians maintain that hip dysplasia is a genetic

predisposition in many breeds of dogs. To an extent this may be true, but we believe that there are too many

coincidences between hip dysplasia and overvaccination. If your dog is young and may be prone to hip dysplasia,

=== PAGE 399 ===
you might want to consider not vaccinating every year.

关节炎也可能表现为髋关节发育不良。髋关节发育不良是指狗的髋部“球窝”关节发育异常。这种情况可

能有所不同，从轻微的髋关节异常到关节的实际脱位。关于髋关节发育不良的根本原因，整体兽医和顺势

疗法兽医之间存在争议。一些整体兽医认为这种情况可能是由疫苗接种引起的，特别是狂犬病疫苗。其他

人则说这是由遗传引起的，但如果真是这样，而且认真的饲养员都小心翼翼地不饲养有这种迹象的动物，

那么为什么它没有被消灭呢？为什么它越来越频繁地出现在越来越多的品种中？尽管有证据，许多兽医仍

然认为髋关节发育不良是许多品种狗的遗传倾向。在某种程度上，这可能是正确的，但我们认为髋关节发

育不良和过度接种疫苗之间有太多的巧合。如果您的狗还年轻并且可能容易出现髋关节发育不良，您可能

需要考虑不要每年都接种疫苗。

Comfrey can help repair aching bones and joints.

紫草可以帮助修复疼痛的骨骼和关节。

The belief that hip dysplasia is strictly a hereditary disease discourages many people from growing attached to

dogs who are believed to be predisposed. This is truly a shame. Not only can a predisposed breed of dog lead a

normal, healthy life but there is a good possibility that hip dysplasia can be prevented by taking some simple,

lifelong measures.

髋关节发育不良严格来说是一种遗传性疾病，这一信念阻止了许多人对那些被认为患有这种疾病的狗产

生依恋。这实在是一种耻辱。易患髋关节发育不良的狗不仅可以过上正常、健康的生活，而且通过采取一

些简单的、终身的措施，很有可能预防髋关节发育不良。

In the book Alternative and Complementary Veterinary Medicine: Principles and Practice, Wendell O. Belfield,

D.V.M., states that hip dysplasia may be caused more by biochemical factors than by genetic inheritance. He

=== PAGE 400 ===
believes that hip dysplasia may be an easily controlled biochemical condition in most breeds of dogs caused by

insufficient collagen synthesis. He says that if insufficient amounts of Vitamin C exist in affected dogs, they may

have difficulty synthesizing enough collagen to assist in maintaining joint stability. Dr. Belfield substantiates his

statement with a study he conducted involving eight litters of German shepherd puppies who came from bloodlines

that were believed to be afflicted with hereditary hip dysplasia. During their pregnancy, bitches were administered

megadoses of vitamin C, and the puppies were maintained on a similar regimen until adulthood. As a result, no signs

of canine hip dysplasia were noted in any of the offspring.

Wendell O. Belfield, D.V.M. 在《替代和补充兽医学：原理与实践》一书中指出，髋关节发育不良可能更

多地是由生化因素引起的，而不是由遗传遗传引起的。他认为，对于大多数品种的狗来说，髋关节发育不

良可能是一种容易控制的生化病症，由胶原蛋白合成不足引起。他说，如果受影响的狗体内维生素 C 含量

不足，它们可能难以合成足够的胶原蛋白来帮助维持关节稳定性。贝尔菲尔德博士通过一项研究证实了他

的说法，该研究涉及八窝德国牧羊犬幼犬，这些幼犬的血统被认为患有遗传性髋关节发育不良。在怀孕期

间，母犬被注射大剂量的维生素 C，幼犬则维持类似的治疗方案直至成年。结果，在任何后代中都没有发

现犬髋关节发育不良的迹象。

Unless onset is acute, such as after a joint injury, the first sign of arthritis is usually lameness that may be

worsened by cold, inclement weather or exercise. You might first notice that your animal isn’t getting around as

easily as he once did. You might observe your companion having difficulty getting on or off the couch, climbing the

stairs, or perhaps jumping in and out of the car. If you are keenly perceptive of subtle changes in your companion,

early onset of arthritis might be signified by abnormal behavior that points to physical discomfort—perhaps your

friend just isn’t his “old self” or appears irritable for no apparent reason. Watch the daily appearance and behavior of

your companion closely. Keep a health care diary for your animal, bearing in mind that nothing you observe is

insignificant. If you do keep a diary, you will be much more effective in preventing simple morning stiffness from

becoming a crippling disease.

除非发病是急性的，例如关节受伤后，否则关节炎的第一个症状通常是跛行，寒冷、恶劣天气或运动可

能会加剧跛行。您可能首先注意到您的动物不再像以前那样轻松地四处走动。您可能会发现您的同伴难以

上下沙发、爬楼梯，或者可能跳进跳出汽车。如果你对伴侣的细微变化有敏锐的洞察力，关节炎的早期发

作可能会表现为身体不适的异常行为——也许你的朋友已经不再是“原来的自己”了，或者表现得无缘无故

地烦躁。密切观察同伴的日常外表和行为。为你的动物写一份健康护理日记，记住你观察到的任何事情都

是无关紧要的。如果你坚持写日记，就能更有效地防止单纯性晨僵变成一种严重的疾病。

As an animal ages, his joints don’t move quite as easily as they once did (Don’t we all know that feeling when

getting in and out of our favorite easy chair?), but if joint stiffness appears to be progressing ahead of your

companion’s age, it’s time to take remedial measures. But before you start administering herbal remedies, you

should know the exact nature of your companion’s arthritis. This may require the opinion of a holistic veterinarian

who can diagnose the many different kinds of arthritis.

随着动物年龄的增长，他的关节不再像以前那样容易移动（难道我们不都知道进出我们最喜欢的安乐椅

时的感觉吗？），但如果关节僵硬似乎在提前发展，你同伴的年龄，是时候采取补救措施了。但在开始使

用草药之前，您应该了解同伴关节炎的确切性质。这可能需要能够诊断多种不同类型关节炎的整体兽医的

意见。

=== PAGE 401 ===
HOLISTIC APPROACHES

整体方法

If your animal has arthritis, his immune system needs either to be boosted or brought back into balance with the rest

of his body. But if the arthritis is related to immune system dysfunction, you may find that immunostimulant herbs

such as echinacea aggravate your companion’s condition. Remember that the inflammation associated with

rheumatoid arthritis is likely caused by an autoimmune attack upon the joints. If we stimulate the immune system

into working harder, we might actually make the arthritis worse.

如果您的动物患有关节炎，则需要增强其免疫系统或使其与身体其他部位恢复平衡。但如果关节炎与免疫

系统功能障碍有关，您可能会发现紫锥菊等免疫刺激草药会加重您同伴的病情。请记住，与类风湿性关节

炎相关的炎症很可能是由关节的自身免疫攻击引起的。如果我们刺激免疫系统更加努力地工作，实际上可

能会使关节炎变得更糟。

Instead, holistic efforts should be directed at what is causing the dysfunction. This starts with a critical assessment

of the animal’s diet, an evaluation of possible food allergies, and a thorough investigation of present and historical

influences that may be affecting your companion’s immune system. Such influences may include vaccinations,

antibiotic or steroid drug therapies, or toxic elements in your animal’s environment. Any associated disorders should

be identified and corrected as well. For example, does your arthritic companion suffer from chronic constipation,

weight problems, hair loss, diarrhea, bladder or kidney problems, chronic infections, or a skin condition? If so, such

conditions are likely related to the arthritis. When you have identified as many of these factors as possible, it’s time

to take remedial action by piecing this holistic puzzle together. It’s important to remember that because arthritis is

such a complex and variable disease, there is no singular herbal approach to treating it. Instead, holistic treatment is

multifaceted, including nutritional supplementation and herbs that are tailored to an animal’s individual needs.

相反，整体努力应该针对导致功能障碍的原因。首先对动物的饮食进行严格评估，评估可能的食物过

敏，并对可能影响同伴免疫系统的当前和历史影响进行彻底调查。此类影响可能包括疫苗接种、抗生素或

类固醇药物治疗，或动物环境中的有毒元素。任何相关的疾病也应该被识别和纠正。例如，您的关节炎同

伴是否患有慢性便秘、体重问题、脱发、腹泻、膀胱或肾脏问题、慢性感染或皮肤病？如果是这样，这种

情况可能与关节炎有关。当您尽可能多地确定这些因素后，就可以采取补救措施，将这个整体难题拼凑在

一起。重要的是要记住，由于关节炎是一种复杂多变的疾病，因此没有单一的草药方法可以治疗它。相

反，整体治疗是多方面的，包括根据动物的个体需求定制营养补充剂和草药。

If the arthritis is due to wear-and-tear joint deterioration (a frequent problem with working or hard-playing

animals), then the supplements glucosamine sulfate and chondroitin sulfate might assist the body in repairing itself.

Glucosamine and its related products, glucosamine sulfate and n-acetylglucosamine, have found a use as nutritional

anti-osteoarthritic agents by helping protect and regenerate connective tissue and cartilage in affected joints. N-

acetylglucosamine has shown promise in the treatment of inflammatory disorders, including inflammatory bowel

disease, Crohn’s disease, and colitis.

如果关节炎是由于关节磨损恶化（工作或努力玩耍的动物经常遇到的问题）引起的，那么补充硫酸氨基

葡萄糖和硫酸软骨素可能有助于身体自我修复。氨基葡萄糖及其相关产品硫酸氨基葡萄糖和 n-乙酰氨基葡

萄糖可作为营养性抗骨关节炎药物，帮助保护和再生受影响关节的结缔组织和软骨。 N-乙酰氨基葡萄糖在

治疗炎症性疾病方面显示出良好的前景，包括炎症性肠病、克罗恩病和结肠炎。

Bovine or shark cartilage, vitamin C, and EFA supplements help repair joint tissue damage. Horsetail herb might

be of help too, as it contains a bioavailable form of silicon, an element that serves as the active matrix in connective

tissue development. Comfrey is also considered a classic bone and joint repair herb. In addition to their internal uses,

these herbs can be effective when applied in the form of an external compress, especially when combined with

cayenne and willow bark, which should not be used in cats.

牛或鲨鱼软骨、维生素 C 和 EFA 补充剂有助于修复关节组织损伤。马尾草也可能有帮助，因为它含有生

物可利用的硅，这是一种在结缔组织发育中充当活性基质的元素。紫草也被认为是经典的骨骼和关节修复

草药。除了内服外，这些草药以外敷的形式也能有效，特别是与辣椒和柳树皮结合使用时，猫不宜使用这

些草药。

Mineral- and vitamin-rich herbs such as nettle and dandelion provide nutrients that are needed for joint repair

=== PAGE 402 ===
along with diuretic activities to help remove excess metabolic wastes from the body, via the urinary tract, that may

otherwise contribute to solid buildups in the joints. These herbs also help strengthen kidney function during the

ordeal. Another herb to consider is shepherd’s purse—this diuretic is believed to have a special affinity toward

removal of waste compounds from arthritic joints. Celery seed and parsley root are also excellent choices.

富含矿物质和维生素的草药，如荨麻和蒲公英，可以提供关节修复所需的营养物质，并具有利尿作用，

有助于通过尿道排出体内多余的代谢废物，否则可能会导致关节中的固体积聚。这些草药还有助于在严酷

的考验中增强肾功能。另一种值得考虑的草药是荠菜——这种利尿剂被认为对清除关节炎关节中的废物有

特殊的亲和力。芹菜籽和欧芹根也是不错的选择。

Alterative herbs such as alfalfa, red clover, and burdock are strongly indicated to build up blood structure and to

assist with the transport of systemic waste from body tissues. Liver supporting herbs (hepatics) such as dandelion

root, yellow dock, and Oregon grape help by strengthening liver and gallbladder function, thus helping with

digestion, nutrient absorption, and solid waste elimination. Lymphatic herbs such as cleavers and calendula may be

of assistance by aiding the circulation of tissue-cleansing lymph in and around inflamed areas.

紫花苜蓿、红三叶草和牛蒡等替代草药强烈表明可以增强血液结构并协助转运身体组织中的全身废物。

护肝草药（如蒲公英根、黄坞和俄勒冈葡萄）有助于增强肝脏和胆囊功能，从而帮助消化、营养吸收和固

体废物排出。淋巴草本植物，如切肉刀和金盏花，可能有助于炎症区域内和周围组织清洁淋巴液的循环。

Cayenne and ginger also may be useful. Both are vasodilators and may benefit the arthritic animal by increasing

blood circulation to affected areas. In some animals, though, these same actions may aggravate an inflammatory

condition. For this reason, internal use of these herbs should proceed with caution, and it is best to administer them

in small doses that are proportioned as lesser ingredients to a formula composed of other anti-inflammatory and

alterative herbs.

辣椒和生姜也可能有用。两者都是血管扩张剂，可以通过增加受影响区域的血液循环而使患有关节炎的

动物受益。然而，在某些动物中，这些相同的行为可能会加剧炎症。因此，内服这些草药时应谨慎进行，

最好以小剂量服用，并在由其他抗炎和替代草药组成的配方中按较少成分比例服用。

Herbs that are useful internally for inflammation and pain of arthritis and hip dysplasia include licorice, yucca,

and willow bark (the latter is not for cats). Alfalfa also has a long-standing reputation for relieving the discomforts

of arthritis. It should be among one of the first herbs to be considered for internal use because it can be safely fed as

a daily food supplement (1 teaspoon per pound of food fed each day).

内服治疗关节炎和髋关节发育不良的炎症和疼痛的草药包括甘草、丝兰和柳树皮（后者不适用于猫）。

苜蓿在缓解关节炎不适方面也享有盛誉。它应该是首先考虑内服的草药之一，因为它可以作为每日食品补

充剂安全喂养（每天每磅食物喂食 1 茶匙）。

Tonics as well as herbs can be helpful in treating arthritis. Circulatory tonics such as yarrow, hawthorn, rosemary,

and ginkgo are worth considering for internal use. They provide a gentle increase of blood flow in tissues

surrounding arthritic joints, so muscles remain oxygenated and more flexible.

补品和草药都有助于治疗关节炎。西洋蓍草、山楂、迷迭香和银杏等循环补品值得考虑内服。它们可以

温和地增加关节炎关节周围组织的血流量，从而使肌肉保持充氧且更加灵活。

On the facing page is a basic tonic formula for arthritic animals. Ingredients can be changed, added to, and

proportioned to serve the specific needs of your animal. The arthritis relief compress that follows might also help to

relieve the pain of arthritis.

对页是关节炎动物的基本滋补配方。可以更改、添加成分并按比例调整成分，以满足动物的特定需求。

随后的关节炎缓解热敷也可能有助于缓解关节炎的疼痛。

Animals have a reputation for not letting their chronic problems slow them down much. As a result, arthritic

joints sometimes become aggravated and inflamed because of physical exertion or injury. Provided that there is no

open wound, a simple external application of arnica oil or tincture on the affected joints often brings fast

symptomatic relief. Some good “strain and sprain” herbal ointments, salves, and liniments are also available on the

market, many of which contain time-proven topical analgesics such as eucalyptus, cayenne, or camphor. Olbas oil or

tiger balm are among our favorites, but do not use these products if your animal is under homeopathic care as they

may antidote the homeopathic remedy. Also, be careful not to apply any undiluted oil or herbal ointment to an

animal, especially cats, who can be sensitive to these types of products. Animals also may lick these products off of

their fur and skin, and some of these products may prove toxic if ingested.

=== PAGE 403 ===
动物以不会让慢性问题拖慢它们的速度而闻名。结果，关节炎关节有时会因体力消耗或受伤而恶化和发

炎。如果没有开放性伤口，在受影响的关节上简单地外用山金车油或酊剂通常可以快速缓解症状。市场上

也有一些好的“拉伤和扭伤”草药软膏、药膏和搽剂，其中许多含有经过时间考验的局部止痛药，如桉树、

辣椒或樟脑。奥尔巴斯油或万金油是我们的最爱，但如果您的动物正在接受顺势疗法护理，请勿使用这些

产品，因为它们可能会解毒顺势疗法。另外，请注意不要将任何未稀释的油或草药膏涂抹在动物身上，尤

其是猫，它们可能对这些类型的产品敏感。动物也可能会从皮毛和皮肤上舔掉这些产品，其中一些产品如

果摄入可能会有毒。

A SYSTEMIC SUPPORT FORMULA FOR CHRONIC ARTHRITIS

慢性关节炎的系统支持配方

Combine the following either as dried herbs or tinctures:

将以下物质混合为干草药或酊剂：

2 parts alfalfa

2份苜蓿

1 part dandelion root

1 份 蒲公英根

1 part parsley root

1 份 欧芹根

1 part cleavers or calendula

1 份切肉刀或金盏花

This formula can be used as a dry herb food supplement. If you do choose to use dry herbs instead of

tinctures, use calendula instead of cleavers because cleavers is almost useless after it is dried. An appropriate

dose for each 30 pounds of the animal’s body weight is 1 tablespoon mixed into food daily. If you opt to use

tinctures, find those that contain little or no alcohol. (They are much easier to feed and much safer on the

digestive tract.) You can administer 2–4 milliliters of the tincture for each 30 pounds of body weight directly

into the animal’s mouth or drop it onto his food daily. This combination is safe for dogs, cats, horses, and

most other mammals and can be given over an extended period with no ill side effects. If your companion

tolerates its bitter flavor, a one-part portion of yarrow can be added to this formula to serve as a vascular

tonic.

该配方可用作干草本食品补充剂。如果您确实选择使用干草药而不是酊剂，请使用金盏花代替切肉

刀，因为切肉刀在干燥后几乎毫无用处。每 30 磅动物体重的适当剂量是每天将 1 汤匙混入食物中。

如果您选择使用酊剂，请找到那些含有很少或不含酒精的酊剂。 （它们更容易喂养，对消化道也更

安全。）您可以每天将每 30 磅体重 2-4 毫升的酊剂直接放入动物的嘴里或滴在食物上。这种组合对

于狗、猫、马和大多数其他哺乳动物来说是安全的，并且可以长期服用，不会产生不良副作用。如

果您的伴侣能忍受其苦味，可以将一份西洋蓍草添加到该配方中，作为血管补品。

Arthritis Relief Compress1

缓解关节炎压缩 1

3 parts dried willow bark

3份干柳树皮

3 parts dried comfrey leaf

=== PAGE 404 ===
3份干紫草叶

3 parts dried yarrow

3份干欧蓍草

1 part powdered cayenne

1 份 辣椒粉

To make this compress, first make a decoction from the willow bark by gently simmering in enough water to

cover it for about 20 minutes. Remove from heat but do not drain. While the water is still hot, add the other

three ingredients. Mix thoroughly, adding just enough boiling water to make a thick paste. Let the mixture

stand until it is cool enough to handle but still hot. The poultice is now ready to use as a compress. (See the

“Basics of Herbal Preparations” in chapter 1 for further instructions.)

为了制作这种敷料，首先将柳树皮煎成汤剂，用足够的水轻轻煮约 20 分钟。从火上移开，但不要沥

干。当水还热的时候，加入其他三种成分。充分混合，加入足够的沸水制成浓稠的糊状物。让混合

物静置直至其冷却到可以处理但仍然很热。现在膏药就可以用作敷布了。 （有关进一步说明，请参

阅第 1 章中的“草药制剂基础知识”。）

After applying the compress, check it after about 5 minutes to assure that the cayenne is not causing

excessive irritation to the animal’s skin. If it is, remove the compress and either lower the proportion of

cayenne or remove it from the formula (make a new batch). For best results, the compress should be left on

the animal for an hour.

敷布后，大约 5 分钟后检查，以确保辣椒不会对动物的皮肤造成过度刺激。如果是，请移除压缩

物并降低辣椒的比例或将其从配方中移除（制作新批次）。为了获得最佳效果，应将敷料留在动物

身上一个小时。

The discomforts of arthritis can be approached with internal herbal therapies as well, and often the fastest results

are reached when topical and internal applications are used simultaneously. See the box on this page for a simple

formula for symptomatic relief.

关节炎的不适也可以通过内服草药疗法来解决，并且当同时使用外用和内服时通常可以达到最快的效

果。请参阅本页上的方框，了解缓解症状的简单配方。

Of course, nutrition is the crux of any of the holistic healing modalities and is the most important factor in the

prevention of arthritis. Many times changing to a raw food diet helps the animal and obviates more drastic measures.

当然，营养是任何整体治疗方式的关键，也是预防关节炎的最重要因素。很多时候，改变生食饮食对动

物有帮助，并避免采取更严厉的措施。

Some animals benefit from occasional chiropractic adjustments from a qualified holistic vet who is trained in the

proper manipulation of an animal’s spine. Acupuncture may also help many arthritic animals who are in pain.

有些动物会受益于合格的整体兽医偶尔进行的脊椎按摩调整，这些兽医接受过正确操作动物脊柱的培

训。针灸还可以帮助许多患有关节炎的动物缓解疼痛。

=== PAGE 405 ===
CANCER

癌症

When we hear the word cancer, many of us immediately think, “Oh no—this is the end!”

当我们听到癌症这个词时，许多人立即想到：“哦，不——这就是结局了！”

But cancer is not always a death sentence. There are many ways to deal with cancer, and many types of cancer

can be treated holistically with the help and advice of a qualified holistic veterinarian.

但癌症并不总是意味着死刑。治疗癌症的方法有很多，并且在合格的整体兽医的帮助和建议下，许多类

型的癌症都可以得到整体治疗。

A SYMPTOMATIC RELIEF FORMULA

缓解症状的配方

Combine the following tinctures:

结合以下酊剂：

1 part alfalfa

1 份 苜蓿

1 part yucca

1 份 丝兰

1 part licorice

1 份 甘草

for dogs, cats, horses, and most other mammals

适用于狗、猫、马和大多数其他哺乳动物

Feed 1–2 milliliters of this formula for each 20 pounds of an animal’s body weight, one to three times daily

for up to ten days or until pain and inflammation are reduced.

每 20 磅体重的动物喂食 1-2 毫升该配方奶粉，每天 1 到 3 次，持续长达 10 天或直到疼痛和炎症减

轻。

In traditional Western medicine, we have been taught to believe that the best way to treat cancer is to poison it or

cut it out. In holistic medicine, the treatment of cancer goes far beyond the physical nature of the disease to address

the emotional and spiritual aspects of the sufferer as well. Many holistic practitioners believe that by cutting out or

poisoning the cancer, we are only driving it else-where—perhaps deeper into the body where it can progress more

insidiously.

在传统的西医中，我们被教导相信治疗癌症的最好方法是毒害它或切除它。在整体医学中，癌症的治疗

远远超出了疾病的身体本质，还解决了患者的情感和精神方面的问题。许多整体治疗师认为，通过切除或

毒害癌症，我们只会将其驱赶到其他地方——也许会更深入地进入身体，在那里它会更加隐蔽地发展。

For example, when the “check engine” light goes on in your car, you may stop, check under the hood, and add

some oil if needed, or you may park the car and not drive it until the problem is identified. You’re not going to rip

out the wire that controls the light so it won’t be a nuisance anymore. Unfortunately, in the case of your car, this

quick-fix approach doesn’t address the worn-out crankshaft bearing that degenerates and grinds away the engine

block as you continue driving down the road—and when the car breaks down next, the damage is far more likely to

=== PAGE 406 ===
be irreparable. Ripping out the wire is exactly what traditional Western medicine does in many cases of cancer.

Voilà, cut and yank, and the problem has been “remedied.”

例如，当汽车中的“检查发动机”灯亮起时，您可以停下来，检查引擎盖下，并在需要时添加一些机油，

或者您可以停车并在发现问题之前不要驾驶它。你不会扯掉控制灯光的电线，这样就不会再造成麻烦了。

不幸的是，就您的汽车而言，这种快速修复方法并不能解决磨损的曲轴轴承问题，当您继续在路上行驶

时，曲轴轴承会退化并磨掉发动机缸体，而当汽车接下来发生故障时，损坏更有可能是无法挽回的。拔掉

金属丝正是传统西医在许多癌症病例中所做的事情。瞧，剪切并猛拉，问题就得到了“解决”。

In holistic medicine, the whole individual is treated, not just the cancer. Cancer is only a symptom of what is

going on deeper within the being. In the treatment or prevention of cancer, all components of body, mind, and spirit

need to be evaluated and supported. A critical assessment of diet is the first place to look—feeding poor-quality

commercial food that is laden with artificial colors, preservatives, and by-products only makes the problem worse.

The second step is to eliminate unnecessary vaccinations from the animal’s life. A body that is working extra hard to

build a cancer-fighting immune system doesn’t need the stressful interference of vaccinations.

在整体医学中，整个个体都得到治疗，而不仅仅是癌症。癌症只是存在内部更深处发生的事情的一个症

状。在癌症的治疗或预防中，身体、思想和精神的所有组成部分都需要得到评估和支持。首先要对饮食进

行严格评估——喂养含有人工色素、防腐剂和副产品的劣质商业食品只会让问题变得更糟。第二步是消除

动物生活中不必要的疫苗接种。一个正在加倍努力建立抗癌免疫系统的身体不需要疫苗接种的压力干扰。

=== PAGE 407 ===
HOLISTIC APPROACHES

整体方法

Nothing would please us more than to inform you of a new herbal “silver bullet” against cancer, but unfortunately

such a thing does not exist. Although countless studies support the usefulness of herbs and various other holistic

medicines in treating cancer, the disease is far too complex, variable, and adaptable for singular therapeutic

approaches. In fact, cancer has so many faces that its early symptoms can include anything from a minor cough or

excess shedding to occasional diarrhea. Just as varied is the list of possible causes—it seems that everything science

looks at closely enough (foods, environmental toxins, natural and synthetic chemicals) carries the potential of

causing cancer.

没有什么比告诉您一种新的草药“银弹”来对抗癌症更让我们高兴的了，但不幸的是这种东西并不存在。尽

管无数研究支持草药和各种其他整体药物在治疗癌症方面的有用性，但这种疾病过于复杂、多变且难以适

应单一的治疗方法。事实上，癌症有很多方面，其早期症状可能包括从轻微咳嗽或过度脱落到偶尔腹泻等

各种症状。可能的原因也多种多样——似乎科学仔细观察过的所有事物（食物、环境毒素、天然和合成化

学物质）都有可能导致癌症。

When cancer has progressed to a point where the diagnosis is certain, curative treatment is often less effective.

But, if the disease is caught in its earliest stages, the prognosis can be quite positive. Effective prevention and

treatment of cancer must begin with the guardian’s intimate familiarity with his or her animal. Nobody offers more

diagnostic insight into cancer than the person who keeps a detailed observational diary of his or her companion

animal.

当癌症进展到确诊的程度时，治愈性治疗通常效果较差。但是，如果在疾病的最早阶段发现这种疾病，

预后可能会相当积极。有效预防和治疗癌症必须从监护人对其动物的密切熟悉开始。没有人比对自己的伴

侣动物记录详细观察日记的人更能提供对癌症的诊断见解。

The diary should include lifelong records of illnesses or odd behavior or appearances. More important, though, it

should reflect what the animal is like during times of optimal health. The guardian’s capacity to notice minor

deviations from perfect health is the most powerful tool in the early treatment of cancer and most other types of

chronic disease.

日记应包括终生的疾病或奇怪行为或外表的记录。但更重要的是，它应该反映动物在最佳健康时期的状

况。监护人注意到与完美健康的微小偏差的能力是早期治疗癌症和大多数其他类型慢性病的最有力工具。

Following are a few common warning signs the Veterinary Cancer Society recommends that pet owners look for

in dogs. These symptoms apply to other animals as well. Remember, nothing here represents a conclusive diagnosis

of cancer, but any symptoms listed should illuminate a red “check engine” light:

以下是兽医癌症协会建议宠物主人在狗身上寻找的一些常见警告信号。这些症状也适用于其他动物。请

记住，这里没有任何内容代表癌症的结论性诊断，但列出的任何症状都应亮起红色“检查引擎”灯：

• abnormal swellings that continue to grow, especially in the lymph

• 异常肿胀持续增长，尤其是在淋巴中

• sores that do not heal

• 无法愈合的疮口

• bleeding or discharge from the mouth, nose, urinary tract, vagina, or rectum

• 口腔、鼻子、尿道、阴道或直肠出血或分泌物

• offensive odor

• 难闻的气味

• difficulty eating or swallowing

• 进食或吞咽困难

• difficulty breathing

=== PAGE 408 ===
• 呼吸困难

• difficulty urinating or defecating

• 排尿或排便困难

• hesitation to exercise or loss of energy

• 犹豫是否要锻炼或失去精力

• loss of appetite, weight loss

• 食欲不振、体重减轻

• persistent lameness or stiffness of movement

• 持续跛行或动作僵硬

• lumps in the mammary glands

• 乳腺肿块

• abnormalities or difference in size of testicles

• 睾丸大小异常或差异

All of these symptoms may represent a cancer that has developed beyond its early stages, and therefore the animal

should be taken to a holistic veterinarian immediately.

所有这些症状可能代表癌症已经超出早期阶段，因此应立即将动物带到整体兽医处。

What might be indicative of the earliest onset of cancer? Well, just about anything out of the ordinary: a chronic

cough or skin problem, decreased energy, aggression, pain, or stiffness—the list of early symptoms is endless. This

doesn’t mean you should live in constant fear of your companion developing cancer, but you should remain aware

that a change that appears to be minor can develop into a serious condition. Don’t ignore any changes in your

animal. If a minor problem persists, consult a veterinarian.

什么可能表明癌症最早发病？好吧，几乎任何不寻常的事情：慢性咳嗽或皮肤问题、精力下降、攻击

性、疼痛或僵硬——早期症状的清单是无穷无尽的。这并不意味着您应该始终担心您的伴侣患上癌症，但

您应该始终意识到，看似微小的变化可能会发展成为严重的病症。不要忽视动物的任何变化。如果小问题

仍然存在，请咨询兽医。

All forms of cancer share a common characteristic: the disease starts when atypical cells begin reproducing and

invading other cells. As healthy cells are destroyed and replaced by cancerous ones, lesions and tumors form and the

body structures they occupy become dysfunctional.

所有形式的癌症都有一个共同的特征：当非典型细胞开始繁殖并侵入其他细胞时，疾病就开始了。当健

康细胞被破坏并被癌细胞取代时，病变和肿瘤就会形成，它们所占据的身体结构也会变得功能失调。

Many holistic healers theorize that cancer is not really an acquired disease but rather the result of a metabolic

imbalance that has progressed out of control. Cancerous tumors begin as small pinpoint lesions that occur off and on

throughout an animal’s lifetime. In most cases, the immune system is able to stop the tumors before they develop

their own blood supply and begin consuming cell structures elsewhere in the body. But if the body is not in

homeostasis (a state of balanced, harmonious health), it may not be able to eliminate the tumor before it takes

control of its surroundings and a malignancy results. From this holistic perspective, carcinogenic compounds, excess

ultraviolet light and radiation, and other substances that are said to cause cancer are not seen as “carriers” of the

disease but as triggering or encouraging mechanisms.

许多整体治疗师认为，癌症实际上并不是一种后天性疾病，而是代谢失衡失控的结果。癌性肿瘤始于微

小的针状病变，在动物的一生中断断续续地发生。在大多数情况下，免疫系统能够在肿瘤形成自己的血液

供应并开始消耗身体其他部位的细胞结构之前阻止肿瘤。但如果身体不处于稳态（一种平衡、和谐的健康

状态），它可能无法在肿瘤控制周围环境并导致恶性肿瘤之前消除肿瘤。从这个整体角度来看，致癌化合

物、过量的紫外线和辐射以及据说会导致癌症的其他物质并不被视为疾病的“载体”，而是被视为触发或鼓

励机制。

The potential for cancer exists within every animal (human and otherwise). The key to preventing it lies inside a

healthy body, not only in the outside influences that we consider threats. Perhaps you have noticed (as we have) that

=== PAGE 409 ===
a disproportionate number of seemingly healthy people develop cancer despite all external efforts to avoid it. Why is

this? It is because despite all the measures they may have taken toward eliminating potential carcinogens from their

lives, deeper issues of physical, emotional, and spiritual health have not been addressed, and the people have fallen

from homeostasis.

每种动物（人类和其他动物）都存在患癌症的可能性。预防它的关键在于健康的身体内部，而不仅仅是

我们认为威胁的外部影响。也许您已经注意到（正如我们一样），尽管采取了各种外部努力来避免癌症，

但看似健康的人中却有不成比例的人患上了癌症。为什么是这样？这是因为，尽管他们采取了所有措施来

消除生活中潜在的致癌物，但更深层次的身体、情感和精神健康问题尚未得到解决，人们已经失去了体内

平衡。

None of this is to say that we should disregard the existence of carcinogenic substances in food, water, and the

environment. To the contrary, every effort should be made to become aware of and eliminate cancer-causing factors

in our lives and the lives of our animals. But we must also provide our bodies with the proper elements of nutrition

and systemic support that are needed to maintain homeostasis and prevent cancer. Furthermore, the immune system

must be properly equipped and always ready to respond to a nearly infinite number of cancer-causing influences. It

must be allowed to do its job without interference from antibiotics, immune-suppressing corticosteroid drugs, and

vaccine therapies. Every time we interfere with natural immune system functions we may be compromising the

body’s ability to respond to and correct cellular or immune system imbalances that could develop into cancer.

这并不是说我们应该忽视食物、水和环境中致癌物质的存在。相反，我们应该尽一切努力认识并消除我

们和动物生活中的致癌因素。但我们还必须为我们的身体提供维持体内平衡和预防癌症所需的适当营养元

素和系统支持。此外，免疫系统必须配备适当的设备，并随时准备好应对几乎无数的致癌影响。必须让它

在不受抗生素、免疫抑制皮质类固醇药物和疫苗疗法干扰的情况下发挥作用。每次我们干扰自然免疫系统

功能时，我们都可能会损害身体响应和纠正可能发展为癌症的细胞或免疫系统失衡的能力。

=== PAGE 410 ===
WHEN CANCER OCCURS

当癌症发生时

The immune system represents the most complete form of disease intervention on earth. If allowed or enabled to

function, it is infinitely more efficient than anything human beings can comprehend, much less devise. When cancer

takes hold, the body’s defenses need all of their resources to fight it. The holistic approach to cancer begins, then, by

providing the body with every opportunity to perform optimally. This means supplying it with supplemental

measures of nutritional and systemic support.

免疫系统代表了地球上最完整的疾病干预形式。如果允许或使其能够发挥作用，它的效率将比人类所能理

解的任何东西都要高得多，更不用说设计了。当癌症发生时，身体的防御系统需要动用所有的资源来对抗

它。因此，治疗癌症的整体方法首先是为身体提供一切最佳表现的机会。这意味着为其提供营养和系统支

持的补充措施。

Several diet programs have been designed to strengthen and support animals with cancer. Many involve foods that

are rich in fiber and antioxidant compounds. Intensive vitamin, mineral, and other supplemental therapies are often

employed as well. These typically include vitamins A, B complex, C, and E, as well as selenium, iron, coenzyme

Q10 (CoQ10), EFAs, digestive enzymes, and dimethylglycine. The best anticancer diet for your animal is one

tailored specifically to his individual needs by a holistic veterinarian who is familiar with treating the disease.

一些饮食计划旨在增强和支持患有癌症的动物。许多涉及富含纤维和抗氧化化合物的食物。通常还采用

强化维生素、矿物质和其他补充疗法。这些通常包括维生素 A、复合 B、C 和 E，以及硒、铁、辅酶 Q10

(CoQ10)、EFAs、消化酶和二甲基甘氨酸。最适合您的动物的抗癌饮食是由熟悉治疗该疾病的整体兽医根

据其个人需求专门定制的饮食。

=== PAGE 411 ===
HERBAL THERAPIES

草药疗法

Herbs play important roles in supporting the body in its effort to rid itself of cancer. Herbal therapies focus on tonic

support of organs and systems that have special significance in the fight. Because cancer is so variable, it’s difficult

to generalize an herbal approach. Every case of cancer is different, as are the metabolic requirements of each animal

who has cancer. But a good starting point for herbal treatment of all animals with cancer is to support the liver,

kidneys, and lymphatic system—the body’s waste filtering and elimination systems. By helping the body cleanse

itself, the immune system is less encumbered with cleanup chores and better able to fight cancer. The infamous

Essiac and Hoxsey formulas were designed for this purpose. Although the formulas for both have likely been

changed several times over the past years, each contains an array of alterative and cholagogue herbs that are targeted

toward cleaning the blood, improving digestion, and eliminating waste (primarily via the digestive tract). The Essiac

formula is commonly marketed in health food stores.

草药在支持身体摆脱癌症方面发挥着重要作用。草药疗法侧重于对在战斗中具有特殊意义的器官和系统的

滋补支持。由于癌症的变异性很大，因此很难推广草药治疗方法。每一种癌症病例都是不同的，每只患有

癌症的动物的代谢需求也是不同的。但对所有患有癌症的动物进行草药治疗的一个良好起点是支持肝脏、

肾脏和淋巴系统——体内的废物过滤和消除系统。通过帮助身体进行自我清洁，免疫系统可以减少清理工

作的负担，并且能够更好地对抗癌症。臭名昭著的 Essiac 和 Hoxsey 配方就是为此目的而设计的。尽管这两

种药物的配方在过去几年中可能已经改变了几次，但每种药物都含有一系列替代和利胆草药，旨在清洁血

液、改善消化和消除废物（主要通过消化道）。 Essiac 配方通常在保健食品商店出售。

The Hoxsey formula is available in various interpretations most of which contain at least six different herbs.

Some herbalists, however, believe that the original formula contained only two: red clover and burdock.

Hoxsey 配方有多种解释，其中大多数包含至少六种不同的草药。然而，一些草药学家认为，最初的配方

只含有两种成分：红三叶草和牛蒡。

Red clover is at the top of our list of anticancer herbs because it inhibits the activities of carcinogenic compounds,

helps improve blood structure, and strengthens lymphatic functions that are crucial in cleansing cell tissues

throughout the body. It also contains sterol constituents that may inhibit the production of blood vessels that supply

and support newly formed tumors. Alfalfa provides similar alterative activities, but we don’t know yet if it possesses

the same tumor-inhibiting properties as red clover.

红三叶草在我们的抗癌草药清单中名列前茅，因为它可以抑制致癌化合物的活性，有助于改善血液结

构，并增强淋巴功能，这对于清洁全身细胞组织至关重要。它还含有甾醇成分，可以抑制供应和支持新形

成的肿瘤的血管的产生。苜蓿提供类似的替代活性，但我们尚不知道它是否具有与红三叶草相同的肿瘤抑

制特性。

Burdock and dandelion root provide gentle stimulation to the liver, thus improving digestion and the removal of

waste. These herbs do not cause added strain upon the filtering organs, and therefore they can be used continuously

over a long period. In situations in which toxic buildup of systemic waste must be eliminated quickly in order to

liberate the immune system, yellow dock serves as a much stronger liver stimulant and in fact is known as a

traditional remedy for heavy metal toxicity (it is also a laxative). Milk thistle may be helpful for protecting the liver

against harmful by-products of the cancer or from damage that may result after protracted drug therapies.

牛蒡和蒲公英根对肝脏提供温和的刺激，从而改善消化和清除废物。这些草药不会对过滤器官造成额外

的压力，因此可以长期连续使用。在必须快速消除全身废物有毒积聚以释放免疫系统的情况下，黄坞可作

为更强的肝脏兴奋剂，事实上被称为重金属毒性的传统疗法（它也是一种泻药） 。水飞蓟可能有助于保护

肝脏免受癌症有害副产物或长期药物治疗后可能造成的损害。

=== PAGE 412 ===
Red clover has many anticancer and tumor-inhibiting properties.

红三叶草具有许多抗癌和抑制肿瘤的特性。

Diuretic herbs may also aid in removal of systemic waste via the kidneys and urinary tract. At the top of the

diuretic list are dandelion leaf and nettle. These herbs stimulate urine production and provide potassium and other

minerals that need to be continually replaced throughout the cleansing process.

利尿草药还可以帮助通过肾脏和泌尿道清除全身废物。排在利尿剂榜首的是蒲公英叶和荨麻。这些草药

刺激尿液产生并提供在整个清洁过程中需要不断补充的钾和其他矿物质。

To help remove toxic waste, slippery elm, marshmallow, flaxseed, and plantain serve as useful devices for

lubricating, protecting, and reducing inflammation of mucous membranes throughout the urinary and digestive

tracts. If poor liver function has caused chronic constipation, frequent small doses of turkey rhubarb tincture (0.25

milliliters per 30 pounds of the animal’s body weight, three times daily) serve as an effective laxative. It should be

limited to as-needed, short-term use because it can cause diarrhea, intestinal cramping, and other discomforts.

为了帮助清除有毒废物，滑榆、棉花糖、亚麻籽和车前草可以作为润滑、保护和减少整个泌尿道和消化

道粘膜炎症的有用工具。如果肝功能不佳导致慢性便秘，经常服用小剂量火鸡大黄酊剂（每 30 磅动物体重

0.25 毫升，每日 3 次）可作为有效的泻药。应仅限于按需短期使用，因为它可能导致腹泻、肠道痉挛和其

他不适。

Immunostimulant herbs may help boost your companion’s immune response to the cancer. Astragalus is

especially well suited for this purpose because it adds energy-boosting adaptogenic qualities to its immunostimulant

properties in cancer-debilitated animals. Garlic is another excellent immune system tonic to consider. While

boosting production of killer T cells and other immune system components, it has also been shown to trigger

enzyme responses that help break down waste materials before they enter the bloodstream.

免疫刺激草药可能有助于增强您伴侣对癌症的免疫反应。黄芪特别适合此目的，因为它在癌症衰弱的动

物中为其免疫刺激特性添加了增强能量的适应性品质。大蒜是另一种值得考虑的极好的免疫系统补品。在

促进杀伤性 T 细胞和其他免疫系统成分的产生的同时，它还被证明可以触发酶反应，帮助在废物进入血液

之前将其分解。

Once the specific characteristics of the cancer have been identified and correlated with the animal’s holistic needs

and cancer-fighting abilities, herbal medicines may be administered directly against the cancer. As we mentioned

earlier, this approach requires the experience of a trained professional who is used to recognizing and treating

cancer. Many herbal devices have shown great promise in combating specific forms of cancer. Acemannan, a

compound derived from aloe vera, has been shown to be effective against fibrosarcoma and FeLV. It is theorized

that acemannan triggers an increase in the immune attack upon the viruses believed to cause these usually fatal

diseases. An intravenous drug called Carnivora is derived from the Venus’s flytrap plant for treatment of malignant

tumors. Although it has not been approved for use in North America as of 1999, Carnivora has shown some

=== PAGE 413 ===
incredible tumor-reducing results in Europe. Herbalists have also seen good results from the use of violet leaf extract

in the treatment of certain cancers. It, too, is believed to have tumor-reducing qualities.

一旦确定了癌症的具体特征并将其与动物的整体需求和抗癌能力联系起来，就可以直接使用草药来对抗

癌症。正如我们之前提到的，这种方法需要训练有素、习惯于识别和治疗癌症的专业人员的经验。许多草

药装置在对抗特定形式的癌症方面显示出巨大的前景。 Acemannan 是一种从芦荟中提取的化合物，已被证

明可有效对抗纤维肉瘤和 FeLV。据推测，乙酰甘露聚糖会引发对病毒的免疫攻击增加，这些病毒被认为会

导致这些通常致命的疾病。一种名为 Carnivora 的静脉注射药物源自维纳斯捕蝇草植物，用于治疗恶性肿

瘤。尽管截至 1999 年 Carnivora 尚未在北美获得批准使用，但 Carnivora 在欧洲已显示出一些令人难以置信

的肿瘤减少效果。草药学家也发现使用紫罗兰叶提取物治疗某些癌症有良好的效果。它也被认为具有减少

肿瘤的作用。

A TONIC SUPPORT FORMULA FOR

滋补支持配方

ANIMALS WITH CANCER

患有癌症的动物

Combine the following low-alcohol (glycerin) herb tinctures:

混合以下低酒精（甘油）草药酊剂：

2 parts red clover

2份红三叶草

1 part astragalus

1份黄芪

1 part dandelion root

1 份 蒲公英根

1 part garlic

1 份 大蒜

This formula can be fed to the animal continuously over a long period: 0.5 milliliters per 20 pounds of the

animal’s body weight, three times daily. If constipation is part of your animal’s problem, try adding 2 parts

marshmallow to the formula. If this fails to bring results, add 1 part yellow dock. If that doesn’t work, try

substituting the yellow dock with turkey rhubarb. If liver damage is evident or a threat, twice-daily doses of

milk thistle may be fed in addition to this formula to help repair and protect the liver. A standardized milk

thistle preparation that contains at least 70 percent silymarin constituents is best for repairing an already

damaged liver.

该配方可以长期连续喂给动物：每20磅动物体重0.5毫升，每天3次。如果您的动物存在便秘问题，请

尝试在配方中添加 2 份棉花糖。如果这无法带来结果，请添加 1 部分黄色底座。如果这不起作用，

请尝试用火鸡大黄代替黄色码头。如果肝脏损伤明显或存在威胁，除了该配方奶之外，还可以每日

喂食两次水飞蓟，以帮助修复和保护肝脏。含有至少 70% 水飞蓟素成分的标准化水飞蓟制剂最适合

修复已经受损的肝脏。

=== PAGE 414 ===
CARDIOVASCULAR PROBLEMS

心血管问题

In contrast with the vast array of cardiovascular disorders that loom over their human guardians, animals have little

risk of contracting heart or arterial disease during the first three-quarters of their lives. Strokes and heart attacks are

almost unheard of in dogs and cats simply because their bodies are naturally designed to metabolize the meat and

animal fats that send many of their caretakers to an early grave. This doesn’t mean that animals aren’t susceptible to

the ills of chemical preservatives, excess sodium, and refined sugar. Nor does it mean their cardiovascular systems

are more resilient to abuse or neglect. It means only that unhealthy foods, chemicals, and environmental influences

may have a different effect on our companion animals than they do on us. Simply put, a dog or cat on a low-quality,

poorly digestible commercial diet is far more likely to die from kidney failure than arteriosclerosis. On the same

note, an animal’s cardiovascular system will fail, just as ours will, unless all requirements of good nutrition,

exercise, and environmental quality are met.

与人类守护者面临的大量心血管疾病相比，动物在生命的前四分之三时间内感染心脏病或动脉疾病的风险

很小。在狗和猫身上，中风和心脏病几乎是闻所未闻的，因为它们的身体天生就可以代谢肉类和动物脂

肪，而这些肉类和动物脂肪会让它们的许多照顾者早早死去。这并不意味着动物不会受到化学防腐剂、过

量钠和精制糖的危害。这也不意味着他们的心血管系统对虐待或忽视的抵抗力更强。这仅意味着不健康的

食品、化学品和环境影响可能对我们的伴侣动物产生与我们不同的影响。简而言之，食用低质量、难消化

的商业饮食的狗或猫死于肾衰竭的可能性远高于动脉硬化。同样，除非满足良好营养、运动和环境质量的

所有要求，否则动物的心血管系统将会衰竭，就像我们的心血管系统一样。

Ginkgo helps to increase circulation.

银杏有助于增加血液循环。

The heart and vascular system operates continuously and under constant pressure throughout an animal’s life.

Factors such as excessive body fat, chronic illness, secondhand smoke, and aging add to the stress and inevitable

wear and tear of this vital system. Unlike us, however, our companions have little choice in how their cardiovascular

health is maintained—that determination is left up to us.

在动物的一生中，心脏和血管系统在恒定的压力下持续运转。身体脂肪过多、慢性疾病、二手烟和衰老

等因素都会增加这个重要系统的压力和不可避免的磨损。然而，与我们不同的是，我们的同伴在如何维持

心血管健康方面几乎没有选择——这个决定权取决于我们。

=== PAGE 415 ===
DIET AND EXERCISE: THE HEART OF HEART HEALTH

饮食和锻炼：心脏健康的核心

Cardiovascular health all begins with a complete diet. The heart consists of specially adapted smooth muscles and

connective tissues that must perform optimally throughout every moment during an animal’s life; therefore, the

heart needs to be continually fed and repaired. The vascular system must remain strong, free of obstructions, and

responsive to the body’s needs. It, too, must be continually supplied with the tools and fuel needed for self-

maintenance and flawless function. A big problem arises, however, when an animal is afforded only an average

“maintenance diet” for subsistence. The cardiovascular system’s nutritional daily requirements are never static but

instead are continually fluctuating and changing as challenges arise. This means that no single commercial diet, no

matter how complete, organic, or digestible it might be, can contain all of the nutritional elements your companion’s

heart needs on a day-to-day basis.

心血管健康都始于完整的饮食。心脏由特殊适应的平滑肌和结缔组织组成，它们必须在动物一生中的每时

每刻都保持最佳状态；因此，心脏需要不断地滋养和修复。血管系统必须保持强健、畅通无阻，并对身体

的需求做出反应。它还必须不断地为其提供自我维护和完美运行所需的工具和燃料。然而，当动物仅获得

平均的“维持饮食”来维持生存时，就会出现一个大问题。心血管系统的日常营养需求从来都不是静态的，

而是随着挑战的出现而不断波动和变化。这意味着没有任何一种商业饮食，无论它多么完整、有机或易消

化，都可以包含您伴侣心脏日常所需的所有营养元素。

The only way to be sure that your animal is receiving the nutrition needed for good cardiovascular health is to

provide a diversity of fresh whole foods throughout his life. Supplemental vitamins, minerals, and EFAs also help

assure that your companion’s cardiovascular system is getting the special considerations it needs. Amino acids are

especially important, as they serve as the protein building blocks of smooth-muscle development and repair. Cats

must have taurine in their diets, and dogs must have a sufficient supply of l-carnitine, or degenerative heart disease

(idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy) may result. Coenzyme Q10 also plays important roles in prevention and

treatment of heart problems. It has been shown to help protect the heart muscle from damage secondary to hypoxia,

infection, and inflammation.

确保您的动物获得心血管健康所需营养的唯一方法是在其一生中提供各种新鲜的天然食品。补充维生

素、矿物质和必需脂肪酸还有助于确保您伴侣的心血管系统得到所需的特殊照顾。氨基酸尤其重要，因为

它们是平滑肌发育和修复的蛋白质组成部分。猫的饮食中必须含有牛磺酸，狗必须有足够的左旋肉碱，否

则可能会导致退行性心脏病（特发性扩张型心肌病）。辅酶 Q 10 在预防和治疗心脏问题方面也发挥着重要

作用。它已被证明有助于保护心肌免受缺氧、感染和炎症继发的损伤。

=== PAGE 416 ===
CARDIOVASCULAR PROBLEMS IN DOGS AND CATS

狗和猫的心血管问题

In cats, the most common form of noninherited (acquired) heart disease is hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, an

enlargement of the left ventricular wall and septum that reduces the heart’s functional ability to pump blood. In

dogs, the most common form of acquired heart disease is valvular degeneration in which the heart valves fail to

completely close when they should, causing an audible (with a stethoscope) heart murmur and decreased cardiac

output. This condition can lead to poor circulation to the extremities, the formation of blood clots in the veins and

arteries, and congestive heart failure. In both dogs and cats, acquired cardiomyopathy is most likely to occur in

middle-aged or older animals.

在猫中，最常见的非遗传性（后天性）心脏病是肥厚性心肌病，即左心室壁和隔膜增大，降低心脏泵血的

功能。在狗中，最常见的获得性心脏病是瓣膜变性，其中心脏瓣膜在应有的时候无法完全关闭，导致听到

（用听诊器）心脏杂音和心输出量减少。这种情况会导致四肢血液循环不良、静脉和动脉形成血栓以及充

血性心力衰竭。在狗和猫中，获得性心肌病最有可能发生在中年或老年动物中。

Animals may suffer from inherited forms of heart disease as well. In dogs, one of the most common is patent

ductus arteriosus, a congenital defect (most commonly seen in miniature poodles and German shepherds) that

essentially amounts to a leak between chambers of the heart. In cats, congenital defects in the mitral and tricuspid

valves of the heart are fairly common.

动物也可能患有遗传性心脏病。在狗中，最常见的一种是动脉导管未闭，这是一种先天性缺陷（最常见

于小型贵宾犬和德国牧羊犬），本质上相当于心室之间的渗漏。在猫中，心脏二尖瓣和三尖瓣的先天性缺

陷相当常见。

Other forms of cardiovascular disease may be secondary to bacterial, protozoan, or viral infection. Congestive

heart failure, a condition in which high pressure in the left atrium of the heart causes a backup of fluid into the

pulmonary capillaries and lungs, is common in obese or geriatric animals or those with heart defects or dysfunction.

其他形式的心血管疾病可能继发于细菌、原生动物或病毒感染。充血性心力衰竭是一种心脏左心房高压

导致液体回流到肺毛细血管和肺部的疾病，在肥胖或老年动物或患有心脏缺陷或功能障碍的动物中很常

见。

Animals with heart problems may exhibit shortness of breath, coughing, and diminished physical stamina. Further

examination may reveal cardiac arrhythmia, pulmonary edema, or blood pressure problems. If you suspect that your

animal companion has a heart problem, you should get him to a holistic veterinarian right away.

患有心脏病的动物可能会表现出呼吸急促、咳嗽和体力下降。进一步检查可能会发现心律失常、肺水肿

或血压问题。如果您怀疑您的动物伴侣有心脏问题，您应该立即带他去看整体兽医。

=== PAGE 417 ===
HERBAL THERAPIES

草药疗法

The herbal approach to heart disorders is to strengthen and support cardiovascular and pulmonary function and

efficiency. Tonic herbal therapies are especially helpful in older animals who need a gentle measure of daily

cardiovascular support. In all cases, a daily supplement of hawthorn helps improve coronary blood flow, moderate

blood pressure, and strengthen heartbeat. Garlic may also be of benefit. Ginkgo, yarrow, or cayenne should also be

considered to help increase circulation in the extremities, brain, and throughout the peripheral capillaries of the

body. If rapid, erratic heartbeat is part of your companion’s disorder, bugleweed may be useful to safely slow and

strengthen the heart. If myocardial inflammation or pulmonary edema is present (such as with congestive heart

failure), a daily regimen of strong dandelion leaf tea helps remove excess fluid from the body. At the same time, it

supplies the body with potassium, a mineral that is essential to healthy heart function.

治疗心脏病的草药方法是增强和支持心血管和肺功能和效率。滋补草药疗法对于需要温和的日常心血管支

持的老年动物特别有帮助。在所有情况下，每日补充山楂有助于改善冠状动脉血流量、调节血压和增强心

跳。大蒜也可能有好处。银杏、欧蓍草或辣椒也应该被认为有助于增加四肢、大脑和整个身体周围毛细血

管的循环。如果快速、不稳定的心跳是您同伴疾病的一部分，那么牛杂草可能有助于安全地减慢和增强心

脏功能。如果存在心肌炎症或肺水肿（例如充血性心力衰竭），每日饮用浓蒲公英叶茶有助于清除体内多

余的液体。同时，它为身体提供钾，这是一种对健康心脏功能至关重要的矿物质。

Adaptogenic herbs such as astragalus or Siberian ginseng may increase overall energy levels in the animal.

Astragalus is also known to have antiviral qualities that are specific to heart infections. Echinacea or other

immunostimulant herbs are indicated in circumstances where bacterial or viral infection is involved.

黄芪或西伯利亚人参等适应性草药可以提高动物的整体能量水平。黄芪还具有针对心脏感染的抗病毒特

性。紫锥花或其他免疫刺激草药适用于涉及细菌或病毒感染的情况。

A CARDIOVASCULAR TONIC

心血管补品

Combine the following glycerin tinctures:

混合以下甘油酊剂：

2 parts hawthorn

山楂 2 份

2 parts dandelion leaf

2 份 蒲公英叶

1 part yarrow

1 份 西洋蓍草

1 part ginkgo

1份银杏

An appropriate dose for dogs, cats, and other small animals is 0.05–1.0 milliliter for each 20 pounds of the

animal’s body weight daily. Horses and other large herbivores can receive 20–30 milliliters daily. If more

practical, horses and other large herbivores can be fed 1–2 liters of the fresh herbs daily (in lieu of the

tincture formula).

对于狗、猫和其他小动物来说，每天每 20 磅体重服用 0.05-1.0 毫升是合适的剂量。马和其他大型食

=== PAGE 418 ===
草动物每天可以吸收 20-30 毫升。如果更实际的话，马和其他大型食草动物可以每天喂食 1-2 升新鲜

草药（代替酊剂配方）。

In addition to this formula, dietary supplementation of garlic may be of benefit to the animal.

除了这个配方之外，在饮食中补充大蒜可能对动物也有好处。

=== PAGE 419 ===
DIGESTIVE SYSTEM PROBLEMS

消化系统问题

We are all familiar with the sounds and sights of an animal suffering from digestive upset—and with cleaning up the

aftermath. This is not a pleasant part of taking care of animals, but it’s a fact of life, nonetheless.

我们都熟悉患有消化不良的动物的声音和景象，以及清理善后事宜。这并不是照顾动物的一个令人愉快的

部分，但这却是生活的事实。

It’s normal for a healthy animal to vomit or get diarrhea on occasion. Dogs and cats may intuitively induce

vomiting by eating grass or other plants. This action serves to cleanse the stomach. Diarrhea may occur if your

animal eats something that he is not accustomed to or eats too much of something that his body doesn’t need, such

as salty food that was sneaked beneath the dinner table. Vomiting and diarrhea are usually harmless and self-

correcting, but they could also be symptoms of a much more serious condition.

对于健康的动物来说，偶尔呕吐或腹泻是正常的。狗和猫可能会通过吃草或其他植物直觉地诱发呕吐。

这个动作可以起到净化肠胃的作用。如果您的动物吃了一些他不习惯的东西或吃了太多身体不需要的东

西，例如偷偷放在餐桌下面的咸味食物，则可能会发生腹泻。呕吐和腹泻通常是无害的并且可以自我纠

正，但它们也可能是更严重疾病的症状。

Digestive upset could be indicative of a parasite imbalance, pancreatitis, colitis, giardiasis, ulcers, liver

dysfunction, bacterial or protozoan infection, or even cancer. This leads us back to what holistic animal healing is all

about: caring about your animal enough to recognize the difference between an isolated incident and a serious

illness.

消化不良可能表明寄生虫失衡、胰腺炎、结肠炎、贾第鞭毛虫病、溃疡、肝功能障碍、细菌或原生动物

感染，甚至癌症。这让我们回到了整体动物治疗的全部内容：足够关心你的动物，以认识到孤立事件和严

重疾病之间的区别。

=== PAGE 420 ===
THE REALITY OF DIGESTIVE UPSET

消化不良的现实

Human nature dictates that anything unpleasant to any of the human senses must be immediately suppressed or

ignored. To think about vomit or diarrhea, much less look at what it contains, is virtually taboo. Humanity’s

aversion toward secondhand food material is a limiting factor in the holistic care of animals. If we are to care for

beloved companions who cannot articulate how they feel, we must learn to set aside this aversion long enough to

consider fully what vomiting and having diarrhea might actually mean in terms of their health. Is that mess on the

sofa just a wad of grass or a hair ball, or does it contain blood (which sometimes looks like coffee grounds), worms,

or thick yellow discharge? Forcing yourself to thoroughly examine the mess rather than covering it up immediately

with half a roll of paper towels might make the difference between health and sickness for your companion.

人性决定任何对人类感官不愉快的事情都必须立即抑制或忽略。思考呕吐或腹泻实际上是一种禁忌，更不

用说看看其中含有什么了。人类对二手食品的厌恶是动物整体护理的一个限制因素。如果我们要照顾无法

表达自己感受的挚爱伴侣，我们必须学会将这种厌恶情绪搁置足够长的时间，以充分考虑呕吐和腹泻对他

们的健康实际上意味着什么。沙发上的乱七八糟的东西只是一团草或一个毛球，还是含有血液（有时看起

来像咖啡渣）、蠕虫或浓稠的黄色分泌物？强迫自己彻底检查乱七八糟的东西，而不是立即用半卷纸巾盖

住它，可能会决定你的同伴的健康与疾病。

The conventional way of dealing with digestive upset is to suppress the uncomfortable or unpleasant symptoms.

For diarrhea, there are stool hardeners. For constipation, there are laxatives. For vomiting, there are antiemetic

drugs. But from a holistic perspective, the paramount question of what caused the problem in the first place remains

unanswered with these approaches. In fact, stopping the body’s efforts to purge itself may do more harm than good.

处理消化不良的传统方法是抑制不舒服或不愉快的症状。对于腹泻，有大便硬化剂。对于便秘，有泻

药。对于呕吐，有止吐药。但从整体角度来看，这些方法仍然没有回答最初导致问题的最重要问题。事实

上，停止身体自我净化的努力可能弊大于利。

If your animal is experiencing chronic diarrhea or is vomiting but is exhibiting no other signs of disease, try

changing his diet. Oftentimes when an animal is placed on a natural diet, these occurrences are greatly diminished or

eliminated altogether. Food supplementation with digestive probiotics and enzymes often helps too. If your animal’s

stool or vomit looks odd or if the situation is severe or persistent, see your veterinarian immediately.

如果您的动物正在经历慢性腹泻或呕吐，但没有表现出其他疾病迹象，请尝试改变他的饮食。通常，当

动物采用自然饮食时，这些现象会大大减少或完全消除。含有消化益生菌和酶的食物补充剂通常也有帮

助。如果您的动物的粪便或呕吐物看起来很奇怪，或者情况严重或持续存在，请立即去看兽医。

=== PAGE 421 ===
APPETITE LOSS (ANOREXIA) AND MALABSORPTION

食欲不振（厌食症）和吸收不良

Loss of appetite in animals is seen in many different illnesses. It can be very dangerous for cats, who may suffer

from hepatic lipidosis, a degenerative condition where the liver becomes congested and dysfunctional from a rapid

buildup of fat. A cat with hepatic lipidosis loses his ability to use stored fat, and as a result, the body utilizes its own

muscle mass as a source of protein. About 35 percent of cats with this disease eventually die from it.

动物食欲不振可见于许多不同的疾病。这对猫来说非常危险，它们可能会患有肝脂质沉积症，这是一种退

化性疾病，肝脏因脂肪快速积聚而变得充血和功能障碍。患有肝脂质沉积症的猫失去了利用储存脂肪的能

力，因此，身体利用自身的肌肉质量作为蛋白质来源。大约 35% 患有这种疾病的猫最终会死于这种疾病。

If your companion chooses not to eat, don’t jump to conclusions and panic. For various reasons, some animals

may naturally decide to fast. Fasting should be allowed if it doesn’t continue for more than a few days and as long as

the animal seems healthy in all other ways. Keep a close eye for signs of weakness, weight loss, fever, runny eyes,

or any other signs of ill health. If after a few days of fasting your companion is still turning up his nose to his

favorite treats, assume that something is wrong—even if he seems otherwise healthy—and get to a vet!

如果您的同伴选择不吃东西，请不要急于下结论并惊慌失措。由于各种原因，一些动物可能会自然地决

定禁食。如果禁食持续时间不超过几天，并且只要动物在所有其他方面看起来都很健康，就应该允许禁

食。密切关注虚弱、体重减轻、发烧、流泪或任何其他健康状况不佳的迹象。如果禁食几天后，你的同伴

仍然对他最喜欢的食物不屑一顾，那么就假设出了什么问题——即使他看起来很健康——然后去看兽医！

A gum or tooth infection, ulcers of the mouth, periods of strenuous exercise, or warm weather may cause

decreased appetite. Intestinal parasites, digestive ulcers, tumors or other masses, digestive flora imbalances, bacterial

or fungal infections, and liver dysfunction are just a few causes of appetite loss. Your companion also may be

depressed or simply bored with his diet. In other words, the possibilities are endless and some are life threatening. If

your companion isn’t eating and you can’t pinpoint the cause on your own within a few days, the best course of

action is to consult your holistic veterinarian for medical help.

牙龈或牙齿感染、口腔溃疡、剧烈运动或温暖的天气可能会导致食欲下降。肠道寄生虫、消化溃疡、肿

瘤或其他肿块、消化菌群失衡、细菌或真菌感染以及肝功能障碍只是食欲不振的几个原因。您的同伴也可

能感到沮丧或只是对自己的饮食感到厌倦。换句话说，可能性是无限的，有些甚至会危及生命。如果您的

同伴没有进食，并且您无法在几天内自行查明原因，最好的做法是咨询您的整体兽医寻求医疗帮助。

It’s difficult to generalize about how to approach appetite loss because the possible causes are too diverse and

extensive. It is safe to say, however, that vitamins, probiotics, and enzyme supplements play important roles in

animals who aren’t cleaning their plates. In addition, a few herbs stand out in their abilities to stimulate appetite and

improve nutrient absorption in the digestive systems of some animals. One such herb is yucca, which contains

saponin constituents that are believed to increase nutrient permeability in the small intestine while at the same time

stimulating appetite. By improving the absorption of nutrients, animals who are eating less are able to make the best

use of the food they do eat. Alfalfa is another herb to consider—it is nutritious and is also regarded as an appetite

stimulant in animals. Both yucca and alfalfa should be used in moderation (especially with horses), as they may

actually cause digestive upset or bloat if fed in too much abundance. Bitter herbs such as gentian, dandelion, and

Oregon grape may help get the digestive juices flowing to trigger an increase in appetite, as might peppermint,

fennel, or garlic.

很难一概而论如何应对食欲减退，因为可能的原因多种多样且广泛。然而，可以肯定地说，维生素、益

生菌和酶补充剂对于不清洁盘子的动物发挥着重要作用。此外，一些草药在刺激食欲和改善某些动物消化

系统营养吸收方面的能力也很突出。其中一种草药是丝兰，它含有皂苷成分，据信可以增加小肠的营养渗

透性，同时刺激食欲。通过改善营养物质的吸收，吃得较少的动物能够充分利用它们所吃的食物。苜蓿是

另一种值得考虑的草本植物，它营养丰富，也被认为是动物的食欲兴奋剂。丝兰和苜蓿都应适量使用（尤

其是马），因为如果喂食过多，它们实际上可能会导致消化不良或腹胀。龙胆、蒲公英和俄勒冈葡萄等苦

味药草可能有助于促进消化液流动，从而引发食欲增加，薄荷、茴香或大蒜也可能如此。

=== PAGE 422 ===
COLIC AND FLATULENCE

绞痛和胀气

The term colic is generic, referring to any condition that causes pain, inflammation, or other discomfort in the colon.

Most commonly, colic is caused by flatulence (trapped gas), which is usually associated with abdominal distention

and irritability. Colic is most often caused by something the animal ingested, but bacterial, fungal, or parasitic

infection may also be the cause, as could a deficiency in liver or gallbladder functions or an ulcer, a tumor, or an

injury somewhere in the digestive tract. Regardless of the onset, colic can be especially serious in horses—so serious

that herbs may not act fast enough to prevent a life-threatening situation. If your horse is suffering from colic, call

your vet immediately!

绞痛这个术语是通用的，指的是引起结肠疼痛、炎症或其他不适的任何病症。最常见的是，绞痛是由胀气

（滞留气体）引起的，胀气通常与腹胀和烦躁有关。绞痛通常是由动物摄入的东西引起的，但细菌、真菌

或寄生虫感染也可能是原因，肝脏或胆囊功能缺陷或消化道某处溃疡、肿瘤或损伤也可能是原因。无论是

何种原因，绞痛对马来说都可能特别严重，严重到草药可能无法足够快地发挥作用来防止危及生命的情

况。如果您的马患有绞痛，请立即致电您的兽医！

To find a long-term solution to colic (especially chronic, recurring cases), you must first identify the underlying

causes. Then and only then can a holistic, long-term solution be found. Until you find the answer, it is possible to

relieve the uncomfortable symptoms of colic with herbs. The first course of remedial action is to aid in the

elimination of excess gas and help reduce pain and spasms in the colon. Chamomile, fennel, dill, catnip, or

peppermint are all good choices for this. If inflammation appears to be part of the problem, slippery elm, plantain,

marshmallow, raspberry leaf, certified organic goldenseal, or nettle may help. If an ulcer is suspected, licorice lends

antimicrobial and anti-inflammatory properties that are especially well suited for the problem. If giardiasis, E. coli,

or some other form of parasitic, bacterial, or fungal infection is part of the problem, consider combining Oregon

grape or goldenseal tincture with an equal amount of licorice tincture (0.5–1 milliliter for each 20 pounds of an

animal’s body weight, twice daily). This helps inhibit the invading microbes while speeding the healing of digestive

mucosa. Fresh echinacea can be especially helpful for horses suffering from colic of bacterial origin—allow the

animals to eat as much of the fresh plants (roots, flowers, and all) as they intuitively desire.

要找到绞痛（尤其是慢性、反复发作的病例）的长期解决方案，您必须首先找出根本原因。只有这样，

才能找到全面、长期的解决方案。在找到答案之前，可以用草药缓解绞痛的不适症状。第一个补救措施是

帮助消除多余的气体并帮助减轻结肠的疼痛和痉挛。洋甘菊、茴香、莳萝、猫薄荷或薄荷都是不错的选

择。如果炎症似乎是问题的一部分，滑榆、车前草、棉花糖、覆盆子叶、经过认证的有机金毛茛或荨麻可

能会有所帮助。如果怀疑有溃疡，甘草具有抗菌和抗炎特性，特别适合解决该问题。如果贾第鞭毛虫病、

大肠杆菌或其他形式的寄生虫、细菌或真菌感染是问题的一部分，请考虑将俄勒冈葡萄或金毛酊与等量的

甘草酊剂（每 20 磅甘草酊剂 0.5-1 毫升）混合使用。动物体重，每天两次）。这有助于抑制入侵的微生

物，同时加速消化粘膜的愈合。新鲜的紫锥菊对于患有细菌性肠绞痛的马特别有帮助——让动物按照它们

的直觉想要吃尽可能多的新鲜植物（根、花等等）。

=== PAGE 423 ===
Dill expels intestinal gas and soothes the stomach.

莳萝可以排出肠道气体并舒缓胃部。

=== PAGE 424 ===
DIARRHEA

腹泻

Diarrhea is caused by an overabundance of fluid entering the intestinal tract. This in turn can interfere with the

digestion process and may result in malabsorption and severe dehydration if left unaddressed. From a holistic

perspective, diarrhea is a by-product of systemic dysfunction or the body’s effort to deal with some form of excess.

Normally, nutrients pass through intestinal mucous membranes to enter the bloodstream. To aid in this metabolic

process, the membranes allow a measured amount of water, bile, and other digestive fluids to enter the intestinal

tract from the opposite direction (from the body). When too much fluid is allowed to enter the intestinal tract for

whatever reason, loose stool is the result. Conversely, when too little fluid is allowed into the intestinal tract,

constipation occurs.

腹泻是由于过多的液体进入肠道而引起的。如果不加以解决，这反过来会干扰消化过程，并可能导致吸收

不良和严重脱水。从整体角度来看，腹泻是全身功能障碍或身体努力处理某种形式的过量的副产品。正常

情况下，营养物质通过肠道粘膜进入血液。为了帮助这个代谢过程，膜允许一定量的水、胆汁和其他消化

液从相反方向（从身体）进入肠道。无论出于何种原因，当过多的液体进入肠道时，就会导致稀便。相

反，当进入肠道的液体太少时，就会发生便秘。

A BASIC FORMULA FOR COLIC

绞痛的基本配方

Combine the following ingredients either as teas, tinctures, or dried herbs:

将以下成分混合为茶、酊剂或干草药：

1 part fennel seed

1 份 茴香籽

1 part marshmallow root

1 份 棉花糖根

1 part chamomile

1 份 洋甘菊

An appropriate starting dose for most dogs is either 1 tablespoon of the dried herbs, 1 milliliter of a low-

alcohol tincture combination, or 2 tablespoons of a strong tea sprinkled on a small amount of food, twice

daily. Cats should receive half of the dog dose. Horses and other herbivores can be fed 2–4 cups of the dried

herbs or 4–8 cups of the fresh herbs daily.

对于大多数狗来说，合适的起始剂量是 1 汤匙干草药、1 毫升低酒精酊剂组合，或 2 汤匙浓茶撒在少

量食物上，每天两次。猫应接受狗剂量的一半。马和其他食草动物每天可以喂 2-4 杯干香草或 4-8 杯

新鲜香草。

The standard, symptomatic approach to diarrhea is to inhibit the entrance of fluid into the intestinal tract. This is

usually accomplished with the use of astringent herbs or drugs—those that cause contraction (shrinking) of mucous

membranes. By quickly shrinking intestinal membranes, excess fluid is prohibited from entering the digestive tract,

and the stool firms up. If herbs are the medicine of choice, those containing large amounts of tannin constituents,

such as uva ursi, rose bark, or white oak bark, are generally the quickest acting. The problem is that these and most

other “tannin heavyweights” can be irritating to the stomach and kidneys and therefore must be used only for a short

duration—about a day or two at a time. The better approach is to be patient. Try gentler astringents first, such as

chamomile or raspberry leaf. If these fail, try slippery elm or plantain (our favorite)—these herbs combine their

tannin constituents with the soothing and protecting effects of mucilage. If these herbs fail, try combining one of the

=== PAGE 425 ===
aforementioned astringents with an equal amount of marshmallow root. The soothing, mucilaginous quality of the

marshmallow helps moderate the irritating effect of the tannins.

治疗腹泻的标准对症方法是抑制液体进入肠道。这通常是通过使用收敛草药或药物来实现的，这些草药

或药物会导致粘膜收缩（收缩）。通过快速收缩肠膜，多余的液体被阻止进入消化道，粪便变硬。如果选

择草药，那么那些含有大量单宁成分的药物，如熊果、玫瑰树皮或白橡树皮，通常起效最快。问题是这些

和大多数其他“重量级单宁”可能会刺激胃和肾脏，因此只能短期使用——一次大约一两天。更好的方法是

要有耐心。首先尝试温和的收敛剂，例如洋甘菊或覆盆子叶。如果这些方法无效，请尝试滑榆或车前草

（我们最喜欢的）——这些草药将其单宁成分与粘液的舒缓和保护作用结合在一起。如果这些草药无效，

请尝试将上述收敛剂之一与等量的蜀葵根混合。棉花糖具有舒缓的粘液性质，有助于减轻单宁的刺激作

用。

With all of that said, it’s now time to reconsider the use of astringents altogether. Remember, the goal of holistic

herbal medicine is to assist the body in its abilities to correct and heal itself. When we use astringent herbs to treat

diarrhea, we are only suppressing the body’s response to deeper problems. Plus, we have to consider that the

diarrhea actually might be part of the body’s natural healing process. The bottom line is this: if your animal is

suffering from a sudden onset of diarrhea, try to make lifestyle arrangements that allow you to live with the situation

for a day or two—until it passes. Encourage your animal to drink plenty of water, restrict salt intake, and let nature

take its course. If bacterial infection or giardiasis is the suspected cause, Oregon grape or certified organic

goldenseal might help solve the problem.

话虽如此，现在是时候重新考虑收敛剂的使用了。请记住，整体草药的目标是帮助身体纠正和治愈自身

的能力。当我们使用收敛草药治疗腹泻时，我们只是抑制了身体对更深层次问题的反应。另外，我们必须

考虑到腹泻实际上可能是身体自然愈合过程的一部分。底线是：如果您的动物突然腹泻，请尝试做出生活

方式安排，让您能够忍受这种情况一两天，直到它过去。鼓励您的动物喝大量的水，限制盐的摄入量，顺

其自然。如果怀疑是细菌感染或贾第鞭毛虫病，俄勒冈葡萄或经过认证的有机金印草可能有助于解决问

题。

Regardless of what you might suspect, if the problem persists or worsens, take your companion to a holistic vet

for a thorough examination. At the very least, have the stool analyzed for the presence of blood, worms, or other

evidence of deeper health problems, and be sure that the animal is drinking plenty of water to avoid dehydration.

Once the underlying causes are identified, a holistic course of action can be directed at the root cause (not the

symptoms) of the problem.

无论您怀疑什么，如果问题持续存在或恶化，请带您的伴侣去看整体兽医进行彻底检查。至少，分析粪

便中是否存在血液、蠕虫或其他更深层次健康问题的证据，并确保动物喝大量的水以避免脱水。一旦确定

了根本原因，就可以针对问题的根本原因（而不是症状）采取整体行动。

A TONIC FORMULA FOR CHRONIC CONSTIPATION

治疗慢性便秘的滋补配方

Combine the following as either dried herbs, low-alcohol tinctures, or strong teas:

将以下物质混合为干草药、低酒精酊剂或浓茶：

2 parts dandelion root

2 份 蒲公英根

2 parts marshmallow root

2 份 棉花糖根

1 part Oregon grape

1 份 俄勒冈葡萄

1 part yellow dock

=== PAGE 426 ===
1 部分黄色码头

1 part fennel (to relieve any associated gas or griping)

1 份茴香（用于缓解任何相关气体或绞痛）

*This diet should be supplemented with flaxseed or psyllium husks.

*这种饮食应补充亚麻籽或车前子壳。

For dogs, try 1 teaspoon of the strong, combined, cooled teas or 1 milliliter of the tincture per 30 pounds of

body weight, two or three times daily.

对于狗，每 30 磅体重尝试 1 茶匙浓混合冷茶或 1 毫升酊剂，每天 2 到 3 次。

Cats can receive ¼ to ½ teaspoon of the strong, combined, cooled teas or 0.25–0.50 milliliters of the

tincture per 15 pounds of body weight, two or three times daily.

每 15 磅体重，猫可以喝 1/4 到 1/2 茶匙浓茶或 0.25–0.50 毫升酊剂，每天 2 到 3 次。

=== PAGE 427 ===
CONSTIPATION

便秘

Constipation is usually caused when the body is unable to fully digest food or when other materials cause a

blockage. If an animal is receiving a healthy, well-balanced diet, constipation should not be a problem, and contrary

to what many conventional dog and cat care texts may say, a healthy diet should include fresh raw bones from an

organic source, if possible. The idea that raw bones cause digestive blockages in dogs and cats is untrue, at least if

the animal is healthy to start with. Carnivores are naturally designed to digest and metabolize bones. If they can’t

digest them and constipation occurs, it’s because their digestive system is not working efficiently (or perhaps they’re

eating too many bones).

便秘通常是由于身体无法完全消化食物或其他物质造成堵塞而引起的。如果动物接受健康、均衡的饮食，

便秘就不应该成为问题，而且与许多传统的狗和猫护理文本可能所说的相反，如果可能的话，健康的饮食

应该包括来自有机来源的新鲜生骨头。生骨头会导致狗和猫消化道阻塞的想法是不正确的，至少在动物一

开始就健康的情况下是这样。食肉动物天生就具有消化和代谢骨骼的能力。如果他们无法消化它们并发生

便秘，那是因为他们的消化系统无法有效工作（或者可能他们吃了太多骨头）。

In treating constipation, the first step is to rule out the possibility that your companion ate something he shouldn’t

have—such as a piece of wood; pine needles; some tough dry grass; or perhaps that heirloom tapestry that was

handed down through your family for fifteen generations. If ingestion of “something different” is ruled out, then

look deeper for some sort of interrelated problem. Start with a thorough reevaluation of diet and make sure that your

animal is receiving the enzymes and probiotics needed for healthy digestive flora. Try feeding your companion some

organic, live-cultured yogurt. Eating yogurt activates reproduction of digestive flora and often has quick and natural

laxative effects. If the animal is straining to pass stool, then some ground flaxseed, psyllium husk, or marshmallow

root might help lubricate the intestines. Feed 1/4 teaspoon of any of these herbs for each 20 pounds of an animal’s

weight along with plenty of water. Fresh chickweed can be fed to horses, goats, llamas, dogs, cats, birds, and other

animals for a gentle laxative and soothing effect.

治疗便秘的第一步是排除你的同伴吃了不该吃的东西的可能性，比如一块木头；松针;一些坚韧的干草；

或者也许是你家族传了十五代的传家宝挂毯。如果排除了摄入“不同的东西”，那么就更深入地寻找某种相

互关联的问题。首先彻底重新评估饮食，确保您的动物获得健康消化菌群所需的酶和益生菌。尝试给你的

同伴喂一些有机的、活培养的酸奶。吃酸奶可以激活消化菌群的繁殖，通常具有快速、自然的通便作用。

如果动物排便费力，那么一些磨碎的亚麻籽、洋车前子壳或药蜀葵根可能有助于润滑肠道。每 20 磅体重的

动物喂食 1/4 茶匙这些草药以及大量的水。新鲜的繁缕可以喂马、山羊、美洲驼、狗、猫、鸟类和其他动

物，具有温和的通便和舒缓作用。

Chronic constipation is often a cumulative effect of liver or gallbladder congestion or dysfunction. If bile

production is reduced in the liver, or if the gallbladder or a bile duct is blocked by solid waste or inflammation, then

the digestive tract cannot receive the chemicals it needs to effectively break down food materials. The result is

constipation. Again, this condition is usually caused by one or more elements of the diet (such as low-grade protein

or too much fat) that cannot be effectively digested and metabolized. Aside from a change in diet, the herbal

approach is to improve bile production and transport with cholagogue herbs such as dandelion root and Oregon

grape. If the problem is believed to be associated with liver damage or inflammation, milk thistle, turmeric, or

licorice should be added to the program to help protect and regenerate liver cells. Essential fatty acids, such as those

found in the oils of flaxseed, evening primrose, and borage, serve critical roles in liver repair as well.

慢性便秘通常是肝脏或胆囊充血或功能障碍的累积效应。如果肝脏中的胆汁产生减少，或者胆囊或胆管

被固体废物或炎症堵塞，那么消化道就无法接收有效分解食物所需的化学物质。结果就是便秘。同样，这

种情况通常是由饮食中的一种或多种元素（例如低级蛋白质或过多的脂肪）无法有效消化和代谢引起的。

除了改变饮食之外，草药方法还包括使用蒲公英根和俄勒冈葡萄等利胆草药来改善胆汁的产生和运输。如

果问题被认为与肝脏损伤或炎症有关，则应在计划中添加水飞蓟、姜黄或甘草，以帮助保护和再生肝细

胞。必需脂肪酸，例如亚麻籽油、月见草油和琉璃苣油中的脂肪酸，在肝脏修复中也发挥着关键作用。

By now you may have noticed that we have not mentioned the use of laxative herbs. This is because constipation

is almost always a by-product of a deeper problem for which a laxative can serve only as a symptomatic quick fix.

=== PAGE 428 ===
The strongest laxative herbs are those containing anthraquinone constituents. Anthraquinones stimulate peristalsis—

spasmodic smooth-muscle contractions of the bowels. In effect, these spasms force stool out of the body, causing

uncomfortable cramping, griping pain, gas, and loss of smooth-muscle tone. With long-term use, laxatives can even

cause digestive dependency (i.e., your animal will not be able to pass stool without the laxative). Since the holistic

approach to animal health is focused on assisting (as opposed to forcing) the body with its natural functions, strong

laxatives such as senna, aloe, cascara sagrada, and turkey rhubarb should be reserved for times when all else fails

and bowel movement is an immediate necessity. Before resorting to any of these herbs, give yellow dock a try.

Although it too contains considerable amounts of anthraquinones, it tends to be much more gentle, and it imparts

liver and digestive stimulating qualities that add to its value in treating constipation. We find it especially effective

when used in small proportions with liver tonic herbs, such as dandelion root.

现在您可能已经注意到我们没有提到使用泻药草药。这是因为便秘几乎总是更深层次问题的副产品，而

泻药只能作为症状的快速解决方案。最强的泻药草药是含有蒽醌成分的草药。蒽醌会刺激蠕动——肠道平

滑肌的痉挛性收缩。实际上，这些痉挛迫使粪便排出体外，导致不舒服的痉挛、绞痛、胀气和平滑肌张力

丧失。长期使用泻药甚至会导致消化依赖性（即，如果没有泻药，您的动物将无法排便）。由于动物健康

的整体方法侧重于帮助（而不是强迫）身体发挥其自然功能，因此应在其他方法均无效且排便困难时保留

番泻叶、芦荟、鼠李皮和火鸡大黄等强效泻药是迫在眉睫的需要。在使用任何这些草药之前，请尝试一下

黄坞。虽然它也含有大量的蒽醌，但它往往更加温和，并且具有刺激肝脏和消化的特性，增加了其治疗便

秘的价值。我们发现它与蒲公英根等补肝药以小比例一起使用时特别有效。

Finally, when encountering constipation in pregnant animals, the safest approach is to avoid anything that

contains anthraquinones. Instead, look to marshmallow, chickweed, flaxseed, or psyllium husks to provide colonic

lubrication without stressing the reproductive organs or the fetus.

最后，当怀孕动物出现便秘时，最安全的方法是避免任何含有蒽醌的物质。相反，可以使用棉花糖、繁

缕、亚麻籽或洋车前子壳来润滑结肠，而不会对生殖器官或胎儿造成压力。

Horses and other herbivores seldom get constipated, but they commonly suffer from various other forms of colic.

When these animals do get constipated, it’s usually attributable to poor-quality feed or forage or to the ingestion of

sand, gravel, and other nonorganic materials. In these circumstances, dietary supplementation with a few

tablespoons of ground or finely chopped marshmallow, flaxseed, or psyllium husks usually assist with elimination.

马和其他食草动物很少便秘，但它们通常患有各种其他形式的绞痛。当这些动物确实出现便秘时，通常

是由于饲料或草料质量差，或者摄入沙子、砾石和其他无机材料。在这种情况下，在饮食中添加几汤匙磨

碎或切碎的棉花糖、亚麻籽或车前子壳通常有助于消除。

=== PAGE 429 ===
HAIR BALLS

毛球

Anyone who has been licked by a cat knows that felines have rough, “barbed” tongues. This makes it difficult for

them to spit hair out after each of their hundred or so daily baths, so they must swallow the hair. This in turn may

lead to vomiting and the possibility of intestinal obstructions.

任何被猫舔过的人都知道，猫科动物的舌头很粗糙，带有“倒刺”。这使得他们每天洗澡一百次左右之后很

难吐出头发，所以他们必须把头发吞下去。这反过来可能导致呕吐和肠梗阻的可能性。

One conventional approach to hair balls is to feed the affected cat some petroleum jelly, a practice we feel is

especially dangerous because the jelly, being totally insoluble in water, can be aspirated into the lungs of a choking

or vomiting cat and cause life-threatening pneumonia. Other approaches employ laxatives, the theory being that the

hair balls can be expeditiously eliminated out the opposite end of the kitty. Again we frown—the poor cat is having

a tough enough time without suffering a caretaker-induced case of intestinal cramping and diarrhea.

解决毛球的一种传统方法是给受影响的猫喂一些凡士林，我们认为这种做法特别危险，因为完全不溶于

水的凡士林可能会被吸入窒息或呕吐的猫的肺部，从而危及生命。肺炎。其他方法使用泻药，其理论是毛

球可以迅速从小猫的另一端排出。我们再次皱起眉头——这只可怜的猫已经过得很艰难了，没有遭受看护

人引起的肠道痉挛和腹泻的情况。

Fortunately, there are some safe and effective actions you can take to help your feline eliminate hair balls more

easily. Foremost is a well-balanced, raw food diet. Raw meats, bones, and vegetables contain the fiber and roughage

necessary to bind with ingested hair and carry it out of the body. Giving ¼ teaspoon of bran, psyllium husks, or

ground flaxseed also provides fiber and lubricating mucilage to help remove hair balls. Giving ½ teaspoon of

marshmallow root tea or 12–20 drops of the glycerin tincture will likely help lubricate the process as well. If your

cat will eat marshmallow root au natural, ¼–½ teaspoon of fresh or dried root can be finely chopped and added to

Kitty’s food for a similar effect. Adding a teaspoon of olive oil to the food can be helpful too.

幸运的是，您可以采取一些安全有效的措施来帮助您的猫更轻松地消除毛球。最重要的是均衡的生食饮

食。生肉、骨头和蔬菜含有与摄入的毛发结合并将其排出体外所必需的纤维和粗饲料。给予 1/4 茶匙的麸

皮、车前子壳或磨碎的亚麻籽也可以提供纤维和润滑粘液，帮助去除毛球。给予 ½ 茶匙棉花糖根茶或 12-

20 滴甘油酊剂也可能有助于润滑该过程。如果您的猫喜欢吃天然的棉花糖根，则可以将 1/4-1/2 茶匙新鲜或

干燥的根切碎并添加到猫咪的食物中，以获得类似的效果。在食物中添加一茶匙橄榄油也有帮助。

For rabbits who get intestinal obstructions of fur, a common practice by some rabbit caretakers is to feed

pineapple juice to “melt” the fur away. The fur passing more easily is probably due to the enzymatic action of the

juice, and supplementing with digestive enzymes would most likely work in a similar fashion when used as a

preventative.

对于因毛皮引起肠梗阻的兔子，一些兔子饲养员的常见做法是喂菠萝汁来“融化”毛皮。毛皮更容易通过

可能是由于果汁的酶作用，并且补充消化酶当用作预防剂时很可能以类似的方式发挥作用。

=== PAGE 430 ===
INFLAMMATORY BOWEL DISEASE

炎症性肠病

Inflammatory bowel disease and colitis involve mucosal inflammation of the colon. Animals with inflammatory

bowel disease often suffer from severe diarrhea, labored or painful bowel movements, gastric distention, and rectal

bleeding or mucus discharge. In cats, the problem is sometimes labeled Crohn’s disease. Causes are often difficult to

pinpoint, even with the best diagnostic methods. Immune system disorders, circulatory impairment in the intestinal

tract, parasitic infections, defects in permeability of the intestinal wall, dietary sensitivities, or adverse drug reactions

are all part of a long list of causative possibilities.

炎症性肠病和结肠炎涉及结肠粘膜炎症。患有炎症性肠病的动物经常患有严重腹泻、排便费力或疼痛、胃

扩张以及直肠出血或粘液排出。对于猫来说，这个问题有时被称为克罗恩病。即使使用最好的诊断方法，

通常也很难查明原因。免疫系统紊乱、肠道循环障碍、寄生虫感染、肠壁通透性缺陷、饮食敏感性或药物

不良反应都是一长串致病可能性的一部分。

Conventional approaches to inflammatory bowel disease include feeding a controlled diet that may include

supplemental dietary fiber and the use of corticosteroids and other immunosuppressive drugs. In cats, inflammation

is often treated with sulfasalazine (Azulfidine), a compound that is also used in humans for similar disorders.

炎症性肠病的传统方法包括控制饮食，其中可能包括补充膳食纤维以及使用皮质类固醇和其他免疫抑制

药物。对于猫来说，炎症通常用柳氮磺吡啶（Azulfidine）来治疗，这种化合物也用于人类治疗类似的疾

病。

Natural therapies usually start with adjustments in diet and supplementation with vitamins and probiotics that

support digestion and moderate immune system activities. A daily regimen of n-acetylglucosamine (250–1,500

milligrams), glutamine (250–3,000 milligrams), Lactobacillus acidophilus (20–500 million microorganisms),

proanthocyanidin complex (10–200 milligrams), dimethylglycine (50–250 milligrams), and vitamin C (250–3000

milligrams) represents one suggested nutritional therapy for dogs and cats. Papaya supplements may also prove

beneficial in improving digestion, but care must be taken to assure that any or all of these supplements do not cause

or worsen diarrhea.

自然疗法通常从调整饮食和补充维生素和益生菌开始，以支持消化和适度的免疫系统活动。每日方案包

括 N-乙酰氨基葡萄糖（250–1,500 毫克）、谷氨酰胺（250–3,000 毫克）、嗜酸乳杆菌（20–5 亿微生物）、

原花青素复合物（10–200 毫克）、二甲基甘氨酸（50–250 毫克）和维生素 C（250-3000 毫克）是一种建议

的狗和猫营养疗法。木瓜补充剂也可能有助于改善消化，但必须注意确保任何或所有这些补充剂不会引起

或加重腹泻。

The symptoms of inflammatory bowel disease can often be relieved with the same herbs we recommend for

treating gastritis. Because reduction of mucosal inflammation is of critical importance, anti-inflammatory and

demulcent herbs such as licorice, slippery elm, plantain, marshmallow, flaxseed, and psyllium husks may be

especially useful. Aloe vera juice or calendula may also relieve the discomforts of inflammatory bowel disease.

Certified organic goldenseal may help to reduce mucosal inflammation. Astragalus is well suited for immune

support in cases in which infection may be involved because it tends not to overstimulate the immune system when

an increased autoimmune response may already be a contributing factor in the inflammation.

使用我们推荐的治疗胃炎的相同草药通常可以缓解炎症性肠病的症状。由于减少粘膜炎症至关重要，因

此抗炎和缓和药草如甘草、滑榆、车前草、棉花糖、亚麻籽和洋车前子壳可能特别有用。芦荟汁或金盏花

也可以缓解炎症性肠病的不适。经过认证的有机金印草可能有助于减少粘膜炎症。黄芪非常适合在可能涉

及感染的情况下提供免疫支持，因为当自身免疫反应增加可能已经成为炎症的一个促成因素时，黄芪往往

不会过度刺激免疫系统。

A FORMULA FOR INFLAMMATORY BOWEL DISEASE

炎症性肠病的配方

Combine the following as either teas, tinctures, or dried herbs:

=== PAGE 431 ===
将以下物质混合为茶、酊剂或干草药：

2 parts slippery elm or plantain

2 份 滑榆或车前草

1 part marshmallow root

1 份 棉花糖根

1 part licorice

1 份 甘草

1 part fennel seed

1 份 茴香籽

For dogs, 1 tablespoon of the dried herbs, 1 milliliter of a low-alcohol tincture combination, or 2 tablespoons

of a strong tea can be fed twice daily. Cats should receive half the dog dose. Horses and other herbivores can

be fed 2–4 cups of the dried herbs or 4–8 cups of the fresh herbs daily.

对于狗来说，每天两次可以喂食 1 汤匙干草药、1 毫升低酒精酊剂组合或 2 汤匙浓茶。猫应接受狗剂

量的一半。马和其他食草动物每天可以喂 2-4 杯干香草或 4-8 杯新鲜香草。

=== PAGE 432 ===
LEAKY GUT SYNDROME (INTESTINAL DYSBIOSIS AND HYPERPERMEABILITY)

肠漏综合征（肠道功能失调和高渗透性）

Leaky gut is a term used for a condition in which food compounds abnormally permeate intestinal barriers to enter

the bloodstream. Oftentimes, this leads to an immediate defensive attack by the immune system and severe food

allergies. In some cases, systemic infection, arthritis, seborrhea, or other forms of autoimmune disease may result.

肠漏是指食物化合物异常渗透肠道屏障进入血液的病症。通常，这会导致免疫系统立即发起防御性攻击和

严重的食物过敏。在某些情况下，可能会导致全身感染、关节炎、皮脂溢或其他形式的自身免疫性疾病。

Leaky gut syndrome has many causes, any number of which may be secondary to another. Poor diet; excessive

use of antibiotic drugs; or bacterial, parasitic, or fungal infections may alter digestive flora to the point that intestinal

mucosal barriers will be vulnerable and weakened by certain food-carried chemicals. The problem may also be

caused by chronic inflammatory bowel disease—when the intestinal mucosa is inflamed, its structural integrity may

be altered in a way that allows unusually large food particles, bacteria, parasites, fungi (such as Candida albicans),

or protozoa to cross intestineblood barriers.

肠漏综合症有很多原因，其中任何一个都可能继发于另一个。不良的饮食习惯;过度使用抗生素药物；细

菌、寄生虫或真菌感染可能会改变消化菌群，导致肠粘膜屏障因某些食物携带的化学物质而变得脆弱和削

弱。该问题也可能是由慢性炎症性肠病引起的——当肠粘膜发炎时，其结构完整性可能会发生改变，从而

导致异常大的食物颗粒、细菌、寄生虫、真菌（如白色念珠菌）或原生动物进入肠道。跨越肠血屏障。

The most effective approach to avoid leaky gut is with a natural diet that contains all of the probiotic elements

necessary for healthy digestive flora, structure, and function. Research has shown that glutamine, a fatty acid

component, plays important roles in maintaining gut tonicity, thus reducing the possibility of leaky gut. One study

concluded that animals deprived of glutamine were more likely to suffer sepsis, bacterial infection of the blood.

避免肠漏的最有效方法是采用天然饮食，其中含有健康消化菌群、结构和功能所需的所有益生菌元素。

研究表明，谷氨酰胺（一种脂肪酸成分）在维持肠道张力方面发挥着重要作用，从而减少肠漏的可能性。

一项研究得出结论，缺乏谷氨酰胺的动物更容易患败血症，即血液细菌感染。

Leaky gut can be progressive and debilitating shortly after onset. The holistic approach toward correcting the

problem is to provide supplemental measures of digestive probiotics to build intestinal flora and strengthen mucosal

barriers. Plantain, marshmallow, raspberry leaf, certified organic goldenseal, and chamomile can be used to reduce

inflammation, tonify intestinal mucosa, and provide an additional barrier against invading microbes. Flaxseed is also

strongly indicated, as it provides soothing, cleansing, and protective mucilage and fiber constituents as well as an

added measure of mucosa-strengthening omega-3 fatty acids.

肠漏症在发病后不久可能会逐渐恶化并导致患者衰弱。解决这个问题的整体方法是提供消化益生菌的补

充措施，以建立肠道菌群并增强粘膜屏障。车前草、棉花糖、覆盆子叶、经过认证的有机白毛茛和洋甘菊

可用于减少炎症、增强肠粘膜，并提供额外的屏障，防止微生物入侵。亚麻籽也受到强烈推荐，因为它提

供舒缓、清洁和保护性的粘液和纤维成分，以及增强粘膜的 omega-3 脂肪酸。

=== PAGE 433 ===
EAR PROBLEMS

耳朵问题

Ear problems most commonly come in the form of bacterial or fungal infections, mites, fleas, or foreign objects

(foxtails, dirt, etc.) lodged in the ear canal. Some other common problems include hematoma of the earflap and

tumors of the inner ear.

耳朵问题最常见的形式是细菌或真菌感染、螨虫、跳蚤或异物（狐尾草、污垢等）滞留在耳道中。其他一

些常见问题包括耳瓣血肿和内耳肿瘤。

Mullein flower, Oregon grape, garlic, marshmallow, ginkgo, and yarrow are especially well suited for treating

infections and parasite infestations of the ear. Mullein flower, garlic, and Oregon grape are all strong antimicrobials

with strong affinities toward inhibition of mites and various pathogens that may cause ear problems. The slippery

oily mucilage of marshmallow root provides soothing relief and a protective, antimicrobial barrier on inflamed

tissues of the outer ear. Yarrow is especially useful for treating small hematomas of the earflap. Used externally, the

oil helps strengthen exterior capillary walls, while internal doses of yarrow and ginkgo tea or tincture improve

capillary circulation and internal tonicity. Witch hazel may also be effective for external treatment of earflap

hematomas, as its strong astringency quickly constricts weak or inflamed blood vessels.

毛蕊花、俄勒冈葡萄、大蒜、棉花糖、银杏和西洋蓍草特别适合治疗耳朵感染和寄生虫感染。毛蕊花、

大蒜和俄勒冈葡萄都是强效抗菌剂，对抑制螨虫和各种可能导致耳朵问题的病原体有很强的亲和力。棉花

糖根滑溜溜的油性粘液可以舒缓疼痛，并为外耳发炎组织提供保护性抗菌屏障。西洋蓍草对于治疗耳瓣的

小血肿特别有用。外用时，该油有助于增强外毛细血管壁，而内服西洋蓍草和银杏茶或酊剂可改善毛细血

管循环和内部张力。金缕梅对于耳瓣血肿的外部治疗也可能有效，因为它具有很强的收敛性，可以迅速收

缩脆弱或发炎的血管。

ANTIMICROBIAL AND ANTIPARASITIC EAR OIL

抗菌和抗寄生虫耳油

Combine equal amounts of the following oil infusions:

将等量的以下油注入混合：

Mullein flower

毛蕊花

Oregon grape

俄勒冈葡萄

Garlic

蒜

Marshmallow

棉花糖

You can add 10–20 drops of vitamin E oil to this mixture to act as a preservative and aid in skin healing. For

ear mites or infections of fungal or bacterial origin, 6–12 drops of the oil can be applied to affected areas of

the earflap or ear canal. A soft plastic dropper is best for application into the ear canal, while a piece of soft

cotton, gauze, or even clean fingertips will suffice as an external applicator.

=== PAGE 434 ===
您可以在该混合物中添加 10-20 滴维生素 E 油，作为防腐剂并帮助皮肤愈合。对于耳螨或真菌或细

菌来源的感染，可将 6-12 滴油涂抹在耳瓣或耳道的受影响区域。软塑料滴管最适合滴入耳道，而一

块软棉布、纱布甚至干净的指尖就足以作为外部涂抹器。

=== PAGE 435 ===
ELDERLY ANIMAL CARE

老年动物护理

What is considered old for a pet? We know that to a certain degree longevity varies with the type, size, and breed of

an animal. For example, a small dog may live into his teens, while a larger breed of dog may be entering his golden

years at only seven or eight years of age. But for those of us who strive to understand what life must be like from the

animal’s perspective, a different question comes to mind: What would our pets themselves regard as old age?

对于宠物来说什么才算老？我们知道，在某种程度上，寿命因动物的类型、大小和品种而异。例如，一只

小狗可能会活到十几岁，而较大品种的狗可能只有七八岁就进入了黄金时期。但对于我们这些努力从动物

的角度理解生活是什么样子的人来说，一个不同的问题浮现在脑海中：我们的宠物自己会认为什么是老

年？

We all grow old. Various body parts become fatigued from oxidation and wear and tear, systemic efficiency

begins to decline, and certain bodily functions simply don’t work as well as they used to. But how much of the aging

process is actually relative to time and physiological degeneration, and how much is the result of surrendering to the

thought of being old and feeble? We raise this question on behalf of the animals who have taught us just how

carefree and fun the latter part of life can really be. Unlike humans, animals age without even considering the

concepts of mortality and personal vanity, and those of us who pay close enough attention to them can gain some

precious insight about what being old really means.

我们都会变老。身体的各个部位因氧化和磨损而变得疲劳，全身效率开始下降，某些身体功能根本无法

像以前那样发挥作用。但衰老过程有多少实际上与时间和生理退化有关，有多少是屈服于年老体弱的想法

的结果？我们代表动物们提出这个问题，它们教会了我们生命的后半段是多么无忧无虑和有趣。与人类不

同，动物在衰老时甚至不考虑死亡和个人虚荣的概念，而我们这些对它们足够关注的人可以对衰老的真正

含义获得一些宝贵的见解。

For humans, old age is as much a product of mind-set as it is of physical circumstances. To animals, the entire

idea of “yielding to the wheels of time” does not apply—an elderly animal does not live in anticipation of death but

in celebration of life. As his human guardians roll their tired old bodies out of bed in the morning and moan, groan,

and complain about their hemorrhoids, the elderly dog waits by the door virtually shouting, “Who cares about not

having teeth anymore? There’s a squirrel out there and it’s near my doghouse! Let’s go get him!” There are some

powerful lessons about life and happiness here.

对于人类来说，衰老既是心态的产物，也是身体环境的产物。对于动物来说，“屈服于时间之轮”的整个

理念并不适用——年老的动物不会生活在对死亡的期待中，而是在庆祝生命。当他的人类监护人早上把疲

惫的身体从床上滚起来，呻吟、呻吟、抱怨自己的痔疮时，这只老狗在门口等着，几乎在喊道：“谁在乎没

有牙齿了？那里有一只松鼠，它就在我的狗屋附近！我们去找他吧！”这里有一些关于生活和幸福的有力教

训。

Chronic diseases are often disregarded as just a part of growing old. In fact, many pet owners see their animals’

old age as a downhill slide to inevitable suffering and death. As a result of this mind-set, countless numbers of

animals are euthanized not because their time has naturally passed but because their guardians are fearful of

watching the animals grow old and die a natural death. Granted, it’s difficult to live in anticipation of a companion’s

death, but all things considered, this is really our problem, not theirs.

慢性病常常被视为衰老的一部分而被忽视。事实上，许多宠物主人将他们的动物的老年视为不可避免的

痛苦和死亡的下滑。由于这种心态，无数的动物被安乐死，不是因为它们的生命已经自然流逝，而是因为

它们的监护人害怕看着动物变老并自然死亡。诚然，生活在同伴死亡的预期中是很困难的，但综合考虑，

这确实是我们的问题，而不是他们的问题。

=== PAGE 436 ===
Providing your pet with a healthful diet, holistic lifestyle, and a lifetime of love can help him enjoy his later years.

为您的宠物提供健康的饮食、整体的生活方式和一生的爱可以帮助他享受晚年。

The fact that an animal is growing old and becoming more susceptible to illness does not automatically predispose

him to chronic disease, it just means that he needs some added care and attention. With your loving support, your

old best friend can enjoy life right up to his last day.

动物变老并且更容易生病的事实并不自动使其容易患慢性病，这只意味着它需要额外的照顾和关注。在

您的关爱支持下，您最好的老朋友可以享受生活直到生命的最后一天。

We are firm believers that animals who receive plenty of love and attention, a wholesome homemade diet, a

minimum of vaccinations, and holistic measures of health care throughout their lives can beat the odds of longevity

set by genetics, breeding, and physical size. By affording them the elements of sustained health and well-being,

animals reward us before and after they pass from our lives. They leave us with the peace of mind that comes from

knowing that their lives were totally fulfilled by kindhearted and respectful human beings who cared enough to

allow them to live and age gracefully and innocently—as animals do.

我们坚信，如果动物在一生中得到充足的爱和关注、健康的自制饮食、最少的疫苗接种以及全面的医疗

保健措施，那么它们就能超越由遗传、繁殖和体型决定的长寿几率。通过为它们提供持续健康和福祉的要

素，动物在它们离开我们的生命之前和之后都会奖励我们。他们给我们留下了心灵的平静，因为我们知道

他们的生活完全是由善良和尊重的人类所实现的，这些人类足够关心他们，让他们像动物一样优雅而天真

地生活和衰老。

=== PAGE 437 ===
HERBAL THERAPIES

草药疗法

Most chronic problems seen in elderly animals are the results of poor or incomplete nutrition. Liver problems,

chronic renal failure, diabetes, arthritis and hip dysplasia, and neurological problems (such as canine cognitive

dysfunction) are just a few of the conditions that may be prevented by lifelong good nutrition. Tailor a dietary

program to your companion’s specific needs as early as possible. Each month of nutritional deficiency can trim

healthy years from the latter end of your animal’s life. A holistic veterinarian can assist you in determining the

proper diet and nutrients for the age, physical condition, and lifestyle of your companion.

老年动物的大多数慢性问题都是营养不良或不完整的结果。肝脏问题、慢性肾功能衰竭、糖尿病、关节炎

和髋关节发育不良以及神经系统问题（例如犬认知功能障碍）只是终身良好营养可以预防的一些疾病。尽

早根据您同伴的具体需求定制饮食计划。每个月的营养缺乏都会缩短动物生命后期的健康年数。整体兽医

可以帮助您根据伴侣的年龄、身体状况和生活方式确定适当的饮食和营养。

In older animals, herbs are especially useful for providing added support to body functions and systems that are

becoming less efficient. Nothing can compare with spirulina or other forms of blue-green algae for tonic nutritional

support of an aging body. Astragalus is an especially well-suited general tonic for older animals because it provides

a measured degree of immune system support while also strengthening the animal’s resistance to stress. Garlic

serves this purpose as well, but added care must be exercised in assuring that it does not cause digestive upset in

elderly animals.

对于老年动物来说，草药对于为效率较低的身体功能和系统提供额外支持特别有用。对于衰老身体的滋

补营养支持来说，没有什么能与螺旋藻或其他形式的蓝绿藻相比。黄芪是一种特别适合老年动物的普通补

品，因为它可以提供一定程度的免疫系统支持，同时还能增强动物对压力的抵抗力。大蒜也有这个作用，

但必须格外小心，以确保它不会导致老年动物消化不良。

The liver and digestive organs endure a lifetime of abusive environmental toxins and systemic waste materials, so

it stands to reason that they will eventually begin to fail in the later years of life. To support liver and digestive

functions, an animal’s diet should be frequently reevaluated and adjusted as needed to accommodate any reduction

in these organs’ metabolic capacities. Additionally, digestion and waste elimination can be improved with digestive

enzymes and mild liver stimulants, such as dandelion or burdock root. These help with the removal of solid wastes

from the body while increasing the production of bile and digestive enzymes. Marshmallow root, fed fresh, dried, or

in any form of low-alcohol liquid, aids in the passage of stool by providing a protective, anti-inflammatory, and

lubricating barrier to the intestinal mucosa. Flaxseed or psyllium husks work in a similar manner as well.

肝脏和消化器官终其一生都承受着滥用的环境毒素和全身废物，因此理所当然地，它们最终将在生命的

晚年开始衰竭。为了支持肝脏和消化功能，应经常重新评估和调整动物的饮食，以适应这些器官代谢能力

的任何降低。此外，消化酶和温和的肝脏兴奋剂（例如蒲公英或牛蒡根）可以改善消化和废物消除。这些

有助于清除体内的固体废物，同时增加胆汁和消化酶的产生。新鲜、干燥或以任何形式的低酒精液体喂养

的棉花糖根，通过为肠粘膜提供保护性、抗炎和润滑屏障来帮助粪便通过。亚麻籽或洋车前子壳也有类似

的作用。

The kidneys have a difficult life too because they must filter and eliminate waste from the blood over the course

of a lifetime. Over time they may become scarred and dysfunctional from repetitive infections, stones, and other

damaging influences that may or may not have been detected earlier. To increase urinary efficiency and help

strengthen mucous membranes in the urinary tract, a tea of dandelion leaf, nettle, cleavers, or parsley leaf can be

added to the animal’s drinking water—just enough to noticeably tint the water. Giving one of these herbs provides

alterative qualities that the animal’s body can selectively utilize to eliminate waste and maintain clean, well-

nourished blood. This can be done every day for the remainder of the animal’s life.

肾脏的生活也很困难，因为它们必须在一生中过滤和消除血液中的废物。随着时间的推移，它们可能会

因反复感染、结石和其他可能或可能未被早期发现的破坏性影响而变得伤痕累累和功能障碍。为了提高排

尿效率并帮助强化尿道粘膜，可以在动物的饮用水中添加蒲公英叶、荨麻、切肉刀或欧芹叶的茶——足以

使水明显着色。给予其中一种草药可以提供替代特性，动物的身体可以选择性地利用这些特性来消除废物

并保持清洁、营养良好的血液。在动物的余生中，每天都可以这样做。

=== PAGE 438 ===
If the animal displays early symptoms of renal failure, twice-daily doses of ginkgo and hawthorn help to improve

blood circulation and reduce blood pressure in the kidneys, while corn silk, marshmallow, and plantain help to

reduce any inflammation.

如果动物出现肾衰竭的早期症状，每天两次剂量的银杏和山楂有助于改善血液循环并降低肾脏血压，而

玉米须、棉花糖和车前草则有助于减少炎症。

Oatstraw serves as an excellent nervous system tonic that can be fed daily to help improve and regulate nerve

transmission. In animals who display diminished mental clarity or odd behavior that is attributable to brain

dysfunction (e.g., cognitive dysfunction in canines) blood circulation and neurological functions of the brain can be

assisted and sometimes improved with the use of ginkgo, gotu kola, or peppermint. In certain cases, Saint-John’s-

wort may be beneficial as well, but this determination should be made by a holistic veterinarian who is familiar with

your animal.

燕麦秸秆是一种极好的神经系统补品，可以每天食用，以帮助改善和调节神经传递。对于由于大脑功能

障碍（例如犬科动物的认知功能障碍）而表现出精神清晰度下降或行为奇怪的动物，可以通过使用银杏、

积雪草或薄荷来帮助甚至有时改善大脑的血液循环和神经功能。在某些情况下，圣约翰草也可能有益，但

这一决定应由熟悉您的动物的整体兽医做出。

Aches, pains, and loss of mobility that result from joint and connective tissue degeneration may be relieved with

supplements of glucosamine or chondroitin sulfate, horsetail, or yucca root. In cases of arthritis flare-ups, licorice,

devil’s claw, or boswellia may bring symptomatic relief.

补充葡萄糖胺或硫酸软骨素、问荆或丝兰根可以缓解因关节和结缔组织变性而导致的疼痛和活动能力丧

失。如果关节炎发作，甘草、魔爪草或乳香可能会缓解症状。

Cardiovascular efficiency can be supported with daily supplementation of hawthorn berries. If circulatory

impairment is evident in the legs, ears, or tail of the animal, ginkgo, yarrow, or cayenne may be of assistance. The

Animal Essentials dry herb and vitamin formula is also a good broad-spectrum daily supplement.

每天补充山楂浆果可以支持心血管效率。如果动物的腿、耳朵或尾巴有明显的循环障碍，银杏、西洋蓍

草或辣椒可能会有帮助。 Animal Essentials 干草本和维生素配方也是一种很好的广谱日常补充剂。

=== PAGE 439 ===
WHEN THE END IS NEAR

当末日临近时

If your companion receives a good diet, plenty of exercise, and a lot of loving attention, chances are excellent that he

will live happily to a ripe old age. However, any animal guardian must be prepared for the inevitable end. This can

involve the need for you to make the weighty and difficult decision of whether your pet’s death should be kindly

assisted. This choice is ultimately up to you, and there’s no easy way around it. Recently, there has been some

interest in hospices for animals, similar to the hospices we are familiar with for people. Vets become involved in the

hospice-care team and help teach a caregiver how to maintain and care for an animal who is dying in the home. It

can make the dying experience much less confusing for both the animal and his guardian.

如果你的伴侣得到良好的饮食、充足的锻炼和大量的关爱，他很有可能会幸福地活到晚年。然而，任何动

物守护者都必须为不可避免的结局做好准备。这可能涉及您需要做出重大而困难的决定：您的宠物的死亡

是否应该得到善意协助。这个选择最终取决于你，并且没有简单的方法可以解决。最近，人们对动物临终

关怀产生了一些兴趣，类似于我们熟悉的人类临终关怀。兽医加入临终关怀团队，帮助教导护理人员如何

饲养和照顾家中垂死的动物。它可以让动物和他的监护人在临终时的经历不再那么困惑。

=== PAGE 440 ===
ENDOCRINE SYSTEM AND RELATED PROBLEMS

内分泌系统及相关问题

The endocrine system consists of glandular organs and structures that are situated throughout the body, each of

which produces and secretes specific hormones and other substances for distribution via the blood or lymph. The

specific substances produced by the various components of the endocrine system play key roles in activating or

regulating organ functions and countless other metabolic activities and balances throughout the body. If one or more

components of this complex and interrelated system fails, a chain reaction of dysfunction can be triggered

throughout the body.

内分泌系统由遍布全身的腺体器官和结构组成，每个腺体器官和结构都会产生和分泌特定的激素和其他物

质，并通过血液或淋巴液进行分配。内分泌系统各组成部分产生的特定物质在激活或调节器官功能以及全

身无数其他代谢活动和平衡方面发挥着关键作用。如果这个复杂且相互关联的系统的一个或多个组成部分

发生故障，就会引发整个身体功能障碍的连锁反应。

Because endocrine system diseases and disorders can affect a wide variety of organs and functions throughout the

body, such conditions are easily misdiagnosed and often written off as behavioral disorders or dietary problems. The

insidious nature of endocrine disease is compounded by its typically slow progression, and oftentimes a problem is

not accurately identified until the animal’s condition is irreversible. This is when loving attentiveness and a well-

kept diary by a holistic caregiver can really pay off. By noticing and addressing subtle symptoms when they first

occur, a guardian can take corrective measures against most endocrine system problems before they become life

threatening.

由于内分泌系统疾病和紊乱会影响全身的多种器官和功能，因此这些疾病很容易被误诊，并经常被误认

为是行为障碍或饮食问题。内分泌疾病的阴险性质因其通常缓慢的进展而变得更加复杂，并且通常在动物

的病情不可逆转之前无法准确识别问题。这时，全面护理人员的关爱和精心保存的日记才能真正得到回

报。通过在首次出现时注意到并解决微妙的症状，监护人可以在大多数内分泌系统问题威胁生命之前对其

采取纠正措施。

=== PAGE 441 ===
ADRENAL GLAND DISORDERS

肾上腺疾病

The adrenal glands produce various hormones that are important in nervous system functions, regulation of the

immune system, and bodily responses to stressful situations. The adrenal cortex (the outer tissues of the adrenal

glands) is chiefly responsible for the body’s production of corticosteroids, the hormones responsible for natural

control of inflammation.

肾上腺产生各种激素，这些激素对于神经系统功能、免疫系统调节以及身体对压力情况的反应非常重要。

肾上腺皮质（肾上腺的外层组织）主要负责体内皮质类固醇的产生，皮质类固醇是负责自然控制炎症的激

素。

Addison’s Disease (Hypoadrenocorticism)

艾迪生氏病（肾上腺皮质功能减退症）

Addison’s disease is caused by deficient secretion of cortisone and other hormones from the adrenal cortex. The

cause of the disease is unknown, but it may be secondary to an immune system disorder that is responsible for

destroying the adrenal glands. Usually the disease progresses slowly, allowing an attentive caregiver to take

remedial action early.

艾迪生氏病是由肾上腺皮质分泌的可的松和其他激素不足引起的。这种疾病的病因尚不清楚，但可能是继

发于导致肾上腺破坏的免疫系统疾病。通常疾病进展缓慢，细心的护理人员可以及早采取补救措施。

Secondary hypoadrenocorticism is caused when synthetic corticosteroids are introduced into the body, natural

adrenal functions are replaced, and the adrenal cortex subsequently begins to shut down. Many animals who are

finishing prednisolone or other steroid therapies or animals who have been subjected to excessive vaccinations

suffer from this form of hypoadrenocorticism.

当合成皮质类固醇被引入体内，天然肾上腺功能被取代，肾上腺皮质随后开始关闭时，会引起继发性肾

上腺皮质功能减退症。许多正在完成泼尼松龙或其他类固醇治疗的动物或接受过多疫苗接种的动物都患有

这种形式的肾上腺皮质功能减退症。

Addison’s disease occurs most frequently in middle-aged female dogs. It rarely occurs in cats. Early symptoms

may be subtle and include occasional lack of appetite, digestive upset, and decreased energy and stamina. In many

cases, symptoms may be apparent only during or after an activity that causes physical or psychological stress, such

as a car ride, a frightening encounter with a big, mean dog, or a dreaded trip to the vet. Symptoms progressively

worsen over time until the slightest measure of stress may result in debilitation.

艾迪生氏病最常见于中年母犬。它很少发生在猫身上。早期症状可能很微妙，包括偶尔食欲不振、消化

不良以及精力和耐力下降。在许多情况下，症状可能只有在导致身体或心理压力的活动期间或之后才会显

现出来，例如乘车、与一只凶恶的大狗发生可怕的遭遇，或者一次可怕的兽医之旅。随着时间的推移，症

状逐渐恶化，直到最轻微的压力都可能导致虚弱。

Degeneration of the adrenal glands is generally irreversible, but if the nutrients needed for maintaining a healthy

body and balanced immune system are provided, progression of the disease can be slowed dramatically. An organic

raw food diet, free from pesticide residues, antibiotics, and livestock growth or milk production hormones, is likely

to yield the best results. Additionally, a high-quality dietary supplement that contains a full complement of vitamins,

minerals, and EFAs is strongly indicated. Supplemental feeding of dried nettle, dandelion leaf, or parsley leaf

provides the body with an array of vitamins and minerals that are essential in maintaining strong adrenal functions.

Any or all of these herbs can be mixed with the animal’s food—1 level teaspoon per pound of food fed daily.

Spirulina is also an excellent supplement for adrenal care—¼ teaspoon for each pound of food fed daily. An

excellent herb and vitamin supplement called Animal Essentials is well suited for animals that have Addison’s

disease or diabetes mellitus.

=== PAGE 442 ===
肾上腺的退化通常是不可逆转的，但如果提供维持健康身体和平衡免疫系统所需的营养，则可以大大减

缓疾病的进展。有机生食饮食，不含农药残留、抗生素、牲畜生长或产奶激素，可能会产生最佳效果。此

外，强烈建议使用含有全套维生素、矿物质和必需脂肪酸的高质量膳食补充剂。补充喂养干荨麻、蒲公英

叶或欧芹叶可为身体提供一系列维生素和矿物质，这些维生素和矿物质对于维持强大的肾上腺功能至关重

要。这些草药中的任何一种或全部都可以与动物的食物混合——每天每磅食物添加 1 平茶匙。螺旋藻也是

一种极好的肾上腺保健补充剂——每天每磅食物添加 1/4 茶匙。一种名为“动物必需品”的优质草药和维生素

补充剂非常适合患有艾迪生氏病或糖尿病的动物。

Borage leaf may help gently boost adrenal output, particularly in cases associated with extended steroid therapies.

Licorice offers a much stronger boost to adrenal function. It’s important to note, however, that these herbs only

stimulate adrenal function, they do not repair or adequately nourish the glands. Siberian ginseng or other

adaptogenic herbs may be useful for reducing the impact of stress upon the adrenal glands.

琉璃苣叶可能有助于温和地增加肾上腺输出，特别是在与长期类固醇治疗相关的情况下。甘草对肾上腺

功能有更强的促进作用。然而，值得注意的是，这些草药只能刺激肾上腺功能，不能修复或充分滋养腺

体。西伯利亚人参或其他适应原草药可能有助于减少压力对肾上腺的影响。

Cushing’s Disease (Hyperadrenocorticism)

库欣病（肾上腺皮质机能亢进）

The opposite of Addison’s disease is Cushing’s disease in which overactive adrenal glands produce too much

cortisone and other hormones. This is most commonly caused (in about 85 percent of all cases) by a malignant or

benign tumor of the pituitary gland. The tumor causes the pituitary to overproduce a hormone that stimulates the

adrenal gland, causing Cushing’s disease. The disease may also be caused by excessive use of corticosteroid drugs

or by a tumor of one or both adrenal glands.

与艾迪生氏病相反的是库欣氏病，其中过度活跃的肾上腺会产生过多的可的松和其他激素。这种情况最常

见（约占所有病例的 85%）是由垂体恶性或良性肿瘤引起的。肿瘤导致垂体过度产生刺激肾上腺的激素，

导致库欣病。该疾病也可能是由于过度使用皮质类固醇药物或一侧或双侧肾上腺肿瘤引起的。

Cushing’s disease occurs in dogs, cats, horses, and other animals. The condition progresses with tumor growth.

Symptoms include increased thirst and appetite; increased urination; abdominal distention; increased panting;

obesity; muscle weakness; hair loss; and dry, scaly, or wrinkled skin.

库欣病发生在狗、猫、马和其他动物身上。病情随着肿瘤的生长而进展。症状包括口渴和食欲增加；排

尿增多；腹胀；气喘吁吁；肥胖;肌肉无力;脱发；以及干燥、鳞状或皱纹的皮肤。

Conventional treatment is based on the diagnosis of the cause. In cases that stem from a pituitary or adrenal gland

tumor, surgical removal or drug therapies are both options. The prognosis is variable according to the amount of

disease progression.

常规治疗基于病因诊断。对于源自垂体或肾上腺肿瘤的病例，手术切除或药物治疗都是选择。预后根据

疾病进展的程度而变化。

Herbal therapy is limited to tonic support of organs and systems that are subjected to additional stress because of

the disease. Dandelion root, burdock, garlic, and nettle are good choices for supporting an overtaxed liver and

digestive system and to help replace potassium that is lost as a result of increased urination. Adaptogenic herbs such

as Siberian ginseng or astragalus help buffer adrenal responses to stress. Kelp is especially useful for maintaining

iodine and other trace mineral levels that are essential for adrenal function. If your companion has Cushing’s

disease, avoid licorice, borage leaf, and other herbs that stimulate adrenal activity.

草药疗法仅限于对因疾病而承受额外压力的器官和系统进行滋补支持。蒲公英根、牛蒡、大蒜和荨麻都

是不错的选择，可以支持负担过重的肝脏和消化系统，并帮助补充因排尿增加而流失的钾。西伯利亚人参

或黄芪等适应性草药有助于缓冲肾上腺对压力的反应。海带对于维持肾上腺功能必需的碘和其他微量矿物

质水平特别有用。如果您的同伴患有库欣病，请避免使用甘草、琉璃苣叶和其他刺激肾上腺活动的草药。

=== PAGE 443 ===
DIABETES MELLITUS

糖尿病

Diabetes comes in many forms, each requiring specific courses of treatment. To simplify, the most common form of

diabetes (diabetes mellitus) occurs when the pancreas becomes dysfunctional and produces too little insulin.

Because of this deficit, the body is unable to effectively utilize or store the glucose, proteins, fats, and carbohydrates

needed to maintain homeostasis. Consequently, serious imbalances are triggered throughout the body. If left

untreated, animals with diabetes mellitus suffer and are likely to succumb to kidney failure, loss of vision, or any

number of autoimmune, heart, or nervous system problems.

糖尿病有多种形式，每种形式都需要特定的治疗疗程。简而言之，最常见的糖尿病（糖尿病）发生在胰腺

功能失调且产生的胰岛素过少时。由于这种缺陷，身体无法有效利用或储存维持体内平衡所需的葡萄糖、

蛋白质、脂肪和碳水化合物。结果，引发了整个身体的严重失衡。如果不及时治疗，患有糖尿病的动物会

遭受痛苦，并可能死于肾衰竭、视力丧失或任何自身免疫、心脏或神经系统问题。

Unfortunately, there is no cure for diabetes. Conventional treatment of advanced cases usually involves insulin

replacement therapy. This approach can be effective, but all too often other relative factors are never addressed.

These factors include special trace mineral or EFA needs that arise from special demands placed upon overworked

organs, as well as kidney damage that has already occurred from the disease.

不幸的是，糖尿病无法治愈。晚期病例的常规治疗通常涉及胰岛素替代疗法。这种方法可能是有效的，

但其他相关因素往往从未得到解决。这些因素包括因过度劳累的器官的特殊需求而产生的特殊微量矿物质

或必需脂肪酸的需求，以及疾病已经发生的肾脏损伤。

Diabetic animals should receive regular exercise and good, wholesome food fed in small amounts, several times

throughout the day. By ingesting many small meals, the body has an easier time producing, using, and stabilizing

insulin and glucose levels. Dietary yeast may be added to the animal’s diet to aid in the metabolism of glucose, and

25 to 200 IU of vitamin E each day may help reduce an animal’s insulin requirement. For dogs and cats, a daily

regimen of 50–300 micrograms of chromium; 500–6,000 milligrams of vitamin C; 4–160 milligrams of digestive

enzymes; 200–1,500 milligrams of n-acetylglucosamine; and 10–200 milligrams of proanthocyanidin complex may

be of benefit as well. Regular exercise is important for maintaining healthy body weight and cardiopulmonary

function and may also help decrease the animal’s insulin need.

患有糖尿病的动物应该接受定期锻炼，并在一天中多次少量喂食优质、有益健康的食物。通过少食多

餐，身体可以更轻松地产生、使用和稳定胰岛素和血糖水平。膳食酵母可以添加到动物的饮食中以帮助葡

萄糖代谢，每天 25 至 200 IU 的维生素 E 可能有助于减少动物的胰岛素需求。对于狗和猫，每日摄入 50-

300 微克铬； 500–6,000 毫克维生素 C； 4–160毫克消化酶； 200–1,500 毫克 N-乙酰氨基葡萄糖； 10-200 毫

克的原花青素复合物也可能有好处。定期运动对于保持健康的体重和心肺功能很重要，也可能有助于减少

动物的胰岛素需求。

The primary role of herbs in treating diabetes is to help strengthen and support systems of the body that have been

ravaged by the metabolic chaos of the disease. Because a diabetic body has a diminished capacity to utilize critical

nutrients, herbs that strengthen digestion and nutrient absorption are strongly indicated. These include bitter herbs

such as dandelion leaf, chamomile (both the leaf and the flower), calendula, and hop. In addition, yucca and alfalfa

are useful for increasing absorption of nutrients in the small intestine. Dandelion root and burdock root both contain

considerable amounts of inulin, a compound that helps moderate and maintain blood sugar levels. Bilberry

(Vaccinium myrtillus) or huckleberry leaf (Vaccinium sp.) may also be effective in moderating glucose levels in the

blood, and a few juniper berries added to each feeding may help optimize the body’s utilization of insulin.

Cardiovascular and kidney efficiency can be improved with the use of hawthorn and ginkgo. Scientific studies have

shown that aloe vera and chemical compounds found in fenugreek seeds may also reduce blood glucose levels and

stimulate insulin production in diabetic animals. Animal Essentials is an excellent herb and vitamin supplement for

diabetic dogs and cats.

草药在治疗糖尿病中的主要作用是帮助加强和支持因疾病代谢混乱而受到破坏的身体系统。由于糖尿病

患者的身体利用关键营养素的能力下降，因此强烈建议使用增强消化和营养吸收的草药。这些包括苦草

本，如蒲公英叶、洋甘菊（叶和花）、金盏花和啤酒花。此外，丝兰和苜蓿有助于增加小肠对营养物质的

=== PAGE 444 ===
吸收。蒲公英根和牛蒡根都含有大量菊粉，这种化合物有助于调节和维持血糖水平。越橘 (Vaccinium

myrtillus) 或越橘叶 (Vaccinium sp.) 也可能有效调节血液中的葡萄糖水平，每次喂养时添加一些杜松子可能

有助于优化身体对胰岛素的利用。使用山楂和银杏可以提高心血管和肾脏的效率。科学研究表明，芦荟和

胡芦巴种子中发现的化合物还可以降低糖尿病动物的血糖水平并刺激胰岛素的产生。 Animal Essentials 是一

种极好的草药和维生素补充剂，适用于患有糖尿病的狗和猫。

=== PAGE 445 ===
PANCREATITIS

胰腺炎

The pancreas produces insulin, a substance that enables the body to utilize and store glucose (the body’s fuel). It also

produces pancreatic enzymes that are essential for digesting food and assimilating nutrients in the digestive tract. It

is a delicate organ that is easily damaged and slow to heal.

胰腺产生胰岛素，这种物质使身体能够利用和储存葡萄糖（身体的燃料）。它还产生胰酶，这对于消化道

中消化食物和吸收营养物质至关重要。它是一个脆弱的器官，很容易受损且愈合缓慢。

Pancreatitis, inflammation of the pancreas, can result from a high-fat diet, obesity, traumatic injury, or excessive

use of corticosteroid, antibiotic, or diuretic drugs. It can also be related to underlying systemic problems such as

liver, gallbladder, or kidney disease; cardiovascular disease; or bacterial infection. Symptoms may include

abdominal pain, restlessness, severe vomiting and diarrhea (sometimes with blood present), diminished appetite, and

weakness. Onset can occur quickly (acute pancreatitis), or symptoms can progressively worsen over time (chronic

pancreatitis). Pancreatitis is most common in middle-aged dogs, especially those who are overweight from being

“pampered” with generous junk-food handouts. The disease is less common in cats.

胰腺炎（胰腺炎症）可能由高脂肪饮食、肥胖、外伤或过度使用皮质类固醇、抗生素或利尿药物引起。

它还可能与潜在的全身问题有关，例如肝脏、胆囊或肾脏疾病；心血管疾病;或细菌感染。症状可能包括腹

痛、烦躁不安、严重呕吐和腹泻（有时带血）、食欲减退和虚弱。发病可能很快（急性胰腺炎），或者症

状可能随着时间的推移逐渐恶化（慢性胰腺炎）。胰腺炎在中年犬中最常见，尤其是那些因大量垃圾食

品“纵容”而超重的犬。这种疾病在猫中较少见。

Natural treatment of pancreatitis is centered on diet and nutrition. To ease the inflamed organ’s burden, meals

should be doled out in small portions and fed three or more times per day. Food should be served with probiotic

(e.g., acidophilus, bifidus) and enzyme supplements at room temperature, which make the food easier for the animal

to digest. And excess fat and foods that contribute to digestive upset should be eliminated from the diet. In addition

to healthy food and food combining, daily supplements of EFAs such as stabilized flaxseed, fish oils and vitamins A

and E are said to help repair and strengthen the pancreas.

胰腺炎的自然治疗以饮食和营养为中心。为了减轻发炎器官的负担，膳食应少量多次，每天喂食三次或

以上。食物中应在室温下添加益生菌（例如嗜酸菌、双歧杆菌）和酶补充剂，这使得食物更容易被动物消

化。饮食中应消除多余的脂肪和导致消化不良的食物。除了健康食品和食物组合外，每日补充必需脂肪酸

（例如稳定亚麻籽、鱼油以及维生素 A 和 E）据说有助于修复和强化胰腺。

Meats, grains, vegetables, and fats are digested and absorbed at different metabolic rates, the pancreas must

produce different enzymes for each. A diseased pancreas may have difficulty producing all the enzymes needed to

digest a meal that includes too many food groups; so therefore, pancreatic efficiency can be optimized if each meal

is composed of food types that are of similar digestibility. For example, grains and vegetables can be served

together, as can grains and fruits or protein (meat) and vegetables. Meat and grains should not be combined during

the same meal, however, because their digestion requirements are different. (For more information on food

combining, pick up a copy of Keep Your Pet Healthy the Natural Way by Pat Lazarus.)

肉类、谷物、蔬菜和脂肪以不同的代谢率消化和吸收，胰腺必须为每种食物产生不同的酶。患病的胰腺

可能难以产生消化包含过多食物组的膳食所需的所有酶；因此，如果每餐都由消化率相似的食物类型组

成，则可以优化胰腺效率。例如，谷物和蔬菜可以一起食用，谷物和水果或蛋白质（肉）和蔬菜也可以一

起食用。然而，肉类和谷物不应该在同一餐中混合食用，因为它们的消化要求不同。 （有关食物组合的更

多信息，请阅读帕特·拉扎勒斯 (Pat Lazarus) 撰写的《以自然方式保持宠物健康》一书。）

Herbal therapies are best directed toward supporting organs and systems related to pancreatic function and the

onset of pancreatitis. A thorough veterinary examination is needed to determine which therapy to use. In almost all

cases, treatment of pancreatic disease requires tonic support of the liver and digestive system. Milk thistle helps to

regenerate and restore normal function to a liver that is damaged as a result of drug therapies or infection.

Dandelion, burdock root, or Oregon grape can help improve digestion and reduce pancreatic stress by gently

increasing bile and enzyme production in the liver. If bacterial infection is present, echinacea helps to boost the

immune system’s response to the invading microbes. Yarrow is said to help reduce pancreatic inflammation and

=== PAGE 446 ===
improve blood circulation to the organ.

草药疗法最好针对支持与胰腺功能和胰腺炎发作相关的器官和系统。需要进行彻底的兽医检查来确定使

用哪种疗法。在几乎所有情况下，胰腺疾病的治疗都需要肝脏和消化系统的补品支持。水飞蓟有助于再生

和恢复因药物治疗或感染而受损的肝脏的正常功能。蒲公英、牛蒡根或俄勒冈葡萄可以通过温和地增加肝

脏中胆汁和酶的产生来帮助改善消化并减轻胰腺压力。如果存在细菌感染，紫锥菊有助于增强免疫系统对

入侵微生物的反应。据说西洋蓍草有助于减少胰腺炎症并改善该器官的血液循环。

=== PAGE 447 ===
THYROID PROBLEMS

甲状腺问题

The thyroid gland consists of two lobes, one located on each side of the trachea. The gland secretes important

hormones, including thyroxine (T4), triiodothyronine (T3), and calcitonin. Release of these hormones is controlled

by yet another hormone, called thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH), which is produced by the pituitary gland.

甲状腺由两个叶组成，一个位于气管的每一侧。该腺体分泌重要的激素，包括甲状腺素 (T 4 )、三碘甲状腺

原氨酸 (T 3 ) 和降钙素。这些激素的释放是由另一种激素控制的，称为促甲状腺激素（TSH），它是由垂体

产生的。

Thyroid hormones control the intensity of critical functions throughout the body, including heart rate, body

temperature, fat and glucose metabolism, digestion, and neurological activities. If the thyroid becomes

dysfunctional, some serious health problems occur.

甲状腺激素控制全身关键功能的强度，包括心率、体温、脂肪和葡萄糖代谢、消化和神经活动。如果甲

状腺功能失调，就会出现一些严重的健康问题。

Hyperthyroidism

甲状腺功能亢进症

Hyperthyroidism occurs when a thyroid tumor, a viral or bacterial infection, or environmental or nutritional factors

cause the thyroid gland to secrete excess hormones into the blood. Symptoms may include ravenous appetite, weight

loss, increased water consumption and urination, aggressive or hyperactive behavior, and rapid or erratic heartbeat

and respiration. The problem occurs more frequently in cats than in dogs or other animals.

当甲状腺肿瘤、病毒或细菌感染、或者环境或营养因素导致甲状腺向血液中分泌过量激素时，就会发生甲

状腺功能亢进症。症状可能包括食欲旺盛、体重减轻、饮水量和排尿量增加、攻击性或过度活跃行为以及

心跳和呼吸快速或不稳定。这个问题在猫身上比在狗或其他动物身上更常见。

Conventional treatment of hyperthyroidism ranges from chemotherapy to surgery to radiation therapy. One

approach involves destroying the thyroid completely with radiation and then putting the animal on hormone

replacement therapy for the rest of his life.

甲状腺功能亢进症的常规治疗范围从化疗到手术再到放射治疗。一种方法是用辐射完全破坏甲状腺，然

后让动物在余生接受激素替代疗法。

Once the thyroid becomes damaged or dysfunctional, its condition is difficult (some say impossible) to reverse.

Therefore, the best holistic approach toward hyperthyroidism is to help prevent it by providing a good natural diet

and avoiding unnecessary chemical or environmental hazards, including X-rays, antibiotic therapies, food

preservatives, and unneeded vaccinations. Daily supplements of vitamin B complex, vitamin C, CoQ10, and EFAs

are also important contributors for maintaining healthy thyroid function.

一旦甲状腺受损或功能失调，其状况就很难（有人说不可能）逆转。因此，治疗甲状腺功能亢进症的最

佳整体方法是通过提供良好的天然饮食并避免不必要的化学或环境危害（包括 X 射线、抗生素治疗、食品

防腐剂和不必要的疫苗接种）来帮助预防甲状腺功能亢进。每日补充复合维生素 B、维生素 C、CoQ 10 和

EFA 也是维持健康甲状腺功能的重要因素。

Herbal therapies include symptomatic treatment and tonic support of systems that are under added stress from an

increased metabolic rate. Bugleweed is considered a specific symptomatic remedy for hyperthyroidism because it is

known to slow thyroid function by reducing production of TSH. Its use, however, should be monitored by a holistic

veterinarian. Hawthorn is helpful for moderating an erratic heartbeat, while skullcap and valerian may help calm and

reduce the “jittery jumpiness” of a hyperthyroid animal. Kelp and other rich sources of iodine should be avoided

because iodine stimulates thyroid function.

=== PAGE 448 ===
草药疗法包括对因代谢率增加而承受额外压力的系统进行对症治疗和滋补支持。 Bugleweed 被认为是治

疗甲状腺功能亢进症的特效药物，因为众所周知，它可以通过减少 TSH 的产生来减缓甲状腺功能。然而，

其使用应由整体兽医进行监控。山楂有助于缓和不稳定的心跳，而黄芩和缬草可能有助于平静和减少甲状

腺功能亢进动物的“紧张不安”。应避免海带和其他富含碘的来源，因为碘会刺激甲状腺功能。

Hypothyroidism

甲状腺功能减退症

The opposite of hyperthyroidism is hypothyroidism—deficient production of hormones by the thyroid.

Hypothyroidism is usually caused by physical degeneration of the thyroid gland, which can be the result of

protracted drugs or therapies, radiation such as X-ray exposure, vaccinosis, genetic predisposition, or nutritional

deficiencies. Hypothyroidism occurs rarely in cats and horses or other large animals, but it is fairly common in dogs.

Destruction of the thyroid is generally irreversible, and animals who are suffering advanced stages of thyroid

degeneration may need hormone replacement therapy.

甲状腺功能亢进症的反面是甲状腺功能减退症——甲状腺产生的激素不足。甲状腺功能减退症通常是由甲

状腺的物理退化引起的，这可能是长期药物或治疗、X射线照射等辐射、疫苗接种、遗传倾向或营养缺乏的

结果。甲状腺功能减退症很少发生在猫、马或其他大型动物身上，但在狗身上相当常见。甲状腺的破坏通

常是不可逆的，患有甲状腺退化晚期的动物可能需要激素替代疗法。

Symptoms of hypothyroidism include weight gain, reduced appetite, mental dullness, lack of energy, hair loss on

the trunk and tail, and a dry coat that pulls easily from the skin. If left untreated, the problem can lead to chronic

seizures, head tilt, lack of coordination, and other serious neurological disorders.

甲状腺功能减退症的症状包括体重增加、食欲减退、精神迟钝、精力不足、躯干和尾部毛发脱落、皮毛

干燥、容易从皮肤上脱落。如果不及时治疗，该问题可能会导致慢性癫痫发作、头部倾斜、缺乏协调性和

其他严重的神经系统疾病。

Iodine is critical in the functions of a healthy thyroid, and many holistic practitioners believe that dietary

supplementation of iodine-rich kelp helps stimulate an underactive thyroid. Many researchers and practitioners

believe, however, that supplemental iodine may contribute to immune-related factors of the disease and trigger a

worsening effect.

碘对于健康甲状腺的功能至关重要，许多整体治疗师认为，膳食补充富含碘的海带有助于刺激甲状腺功

能低下的甲状腺。然而，许多研究人员和从业者认为，补充碘可能会导致该病的免疫相关因素，并引发病

情恶化。

Licorice may have a slight stimulant effect on an unproductive but physically intact thyroid, and adaptogens such

as organically grown ginseng, astragalus, or Siberian ginseng might help energy levels and the body’s response to

stress. Otherwise, herb use is limited to treating the discomforts subsequent to hypothyroidism. For instance, related

digestive disorders can be treated with dandelion root, Oregon grape, or yellow dock, whereas seborrhea might be

relieved by gotu kola, burdock, or red clover.

甘草可能对生产力低下但身体完好的甲状腺有轻微的刺激作用，而有机种植的人参、黄芪或西伯利亚人

参等适应原可能有助于提高能量水平和身体对压力的反应。否则，草药的使用仅限于治疗甲状腺功能减退

症引起的不适。例如，相关的消化系统疾病可以用蒲公英根、俄勒冈葡萄或黄坞来治疗，而皮脂溢则可以

用积雪草、牛蒡或红三叶草来缓解。

In our opinion, homeopathy and the use of glandular preparations offer more effective courses of early- to late-

term treatment than herbs do.

我们认为，顺势疗法和腺体制剂的使用提供了比草药更有效的早期到晚期治疗过程。

=== PAGE 449 ===
EPILEPSY, CONVULSIONS, AND SEIZURES

癫痫、抽搐和癫痫发作

A seizure can be frightening if you’ve never seen one before. Some animals may experience a seizure once in their

lives and then never again. On the other hand, some have several seizures every day of their lives.

如果您以前从未见过癫痫发作，那么癫痫发作可能会很可怕。有些动物一生中可能会经历一次癫痫发作，

然后就再也不会发作了。另一方面，有些人一生中每天都会有几次癫痫发作。

The causes of seizures are widely varied, ranging from epilepsy to nervous system disease or injury. In dogs,

hyperthermia, poisoning, low blood sugar, nutritional deficiencies, distemper, intestinal parasites that have entered

the bloodstream, tumors, low blood calcium after birthing, liver or kidney disease, and thyroid problems may be

underlying factors. In cats, convulsions may be linked to feline infectious peritonitis (FIP), toxoplasmosis,

lymphosarcoma (leukemia), thiamine deficiency, or a heart disorder.

癫痫发作的原因多种多样，从癫痫到神经系统疾病或损伤。对于狗来说，高热、中毒、低血糖、营养缺

乏、犬瘟热、进入血液的肠道寄生虫、肿瘤、产后低血钙、肝脏或肾脏疾病以及甲状腺问题可能是潜在因

素。对于猫来说，抽搐可能与猫传染性腹膜炎 (FIP)、弓形体病、淋巴肉瘤（白血病）、硫胺素缺乏或心脏

病有关。

All cases of seizures involve electrical disturbances of the brain that result in muscle contractions of variable

intensity and loss of motor control. Many animals lose consciousness and bladder or bowel control during a seizure,

and some may exhibit overly affectionate, frightened, or “clingy” behavior immediately before an epileptic episode.

Digestive disorders, hair loss, neuralgia, and several other problems may also be associated with chronic convulsive

disorders.

所有癫痫发作都涉及大脑电干扰，导致不同强度的肌肉收缩和运动控制丧失。许多动物在癫痫发作期间

失去意识和膀胱或肠道控制，有些动物可能在癫痫发作前立即表现出过度深情、害怕或“粘人”的行为。消

化系统疾病、脱发、神经痛和其他一些问题也可能与慢性惊厥性疾病有关。

Conventional therapies typically involve the use of phenobarbital, potassium bromide, or other anticonvulsant

drugs. These measures can prove to be effective, but they cannot address the underlying causes of chronic

convulsive disorders.

传统疗法通常涉及使用苯巴比妥、溴化钾或其他抗惊厥药物。这些措施被证明是有效的，但它们无法解

决慢性惊厥性疾病的根本原因。

=== PAGE 450 ===
HOLISTIC APPROACHES

整体方法

Holistic treatment usually entails a lifelong effort, beginning with a dietary and environmental assessment and

adjustment, and continuing with nutritional supplementation and herbal therapies that focus on normalizing and

maintaining nervous system function. All possible environmental causes of or contributors to seizures should be

removed from your home. Eliminate all possible contact with antifreeze fluids, household chemicals, pesticides and

herbicides, lead-based paints, and other neurotoxins from your companion’s environment. (These substances are

harmful to humans, as well.)

整体治疗通常需要终生努力，从饮食和环境评估和调整开始，然后继续营养补充和草药疗法，重点是使神

经系统功能正常化和维持正常化。所有可能导致癫痫发作的环境原因或促成因素都应从您的家中清除。消

除与同伴环境中的防冻液、家用化学品、杀虫剂和除草剂、含铅油漆以及其他神经毒素的所有可能接触。

（这些物质也对人类有害。）

Skullcap is one of several herbs that can be used to treat epilepsy.

黄芩是可用于治疗癫痫的几种草药之一。

Animals with epilepsy or other convulsive disorders should be on a natural, whole foods diet. Cats with epilepsy,

however, should not be fed raw fish because it contains thiaminase, an enzyme that breaks down vitamin B1

(thiamine). Vitamin B1 is essential for healthy nervous system functions. In all animals, dietary supplementation

with omega-3 and omega-6 EFAs is important in the development and maintenance of healthy nervous system

structure and function. Animal Essentials makes an excellent EFA supplement for dogs and cats. In addition to

EFAs, supplementing your companion’s diet with essential and nonessential vitamins, minerals, and digestive

enzymes and with probiotics is indicated to assure that the nervous system is getting everything it needs to heal and

function optimally. A daily supplementation of 100-300 milligrams of betaine HCl; 50-500 milligrams of

dimethylglycine; 200-1000 milligrams of taurine; and 10-200 milligrams of proanthocyanidin complex is said to be

helpful for epileptic dogs. Recent studies have shown that a ketogenic diet can be effective for treating severe

epilepsy in humans, but at this point we can only speculate about the usefulness of this approach in animals.

=== PAGE 451 ===
患有癫痫或其他惊厥性疾病的动物应该采用天然的全食饮食。然而，患有癫痫的猫不应该喂生鱼，因为

它含有硫胺素酶，一种分解维生素 B 1 （硫胺素）的酶。维生素 B 1 对于健康的神经系统功能至关重要。在

所有动物中，膳食补充 omega-3 和 omega-6 必需脂肪酸对于健康神经系统结构和功能的发育和维持非常重

要。 Animal Essentials 为狗和猫提供了极好的全民教育补充剂。除了必需脂肪酸外，还可以在伴侣的饮食中

补充必需和非必需的维生素、矿物质、消化酶以及益生菌，以确保神经系统获得最佳愈合和功能所需的一

切。每日补充100-300毫克盐酸甜菜碱； 50-500毫克二甲基甘氨酸； 200-1000毫克牛磺酸；据说10-200毫克

的原花青素复合物对癫痫犬有帮助。最近的研究表明，生酮饮食可以有效治疗人类的严重癫痫症，但目前

我们只能推测这种方法在动物身上的有效性。

We have seen promising results with the use of skullcap in the treatment of epileptic animals. This nervine is

believed to moderate overactive synaptic activity in the higher brain centers in which epileptic episodes may be

triggered. We have received many good reports about valerian and oatstraw, too, especially when they are combined

in equal proportions with skullcap. Although these herbs do not represent a cure for epilepsy, their reported effects

include less frequent and less severe episodes. Lemon balm, ginkgo, rosemary, hop, passionflower, and perhaps

kava kava (research is promising in the area of controlling seizures in rodents) may also be effective in the treatment

of chronic seizures. Additionally, flower essences of vervain or chestnut bud may be helpful in moderating seizures.

我们已经看到使用黄芩治疗癫痫动物的有希望的结果。这种神经被认为可以调节可能引发癫痫发作的高

级大脑中心过度活跃的突触活动。我们也收到了许多关于缬草和燕麦草的良好报告，特别是当它们与黄芩

以相同比例混合时。尽管这些草药不能治愈癫痫，但据报道，它们的作用包括减少发作频率和减轻严重程

度。香蜂草、银杏、迷迭香、啤酒花、西番莲，也许还有卡瓦卡瓦（在控制啮齿动物癫痫发作领域的研究

很有前景）也可能有效治疗慢性癫痫发作。此外，马鞭草或栗子花蕾的花精可能有助于缓解癫痫发作。

=== PAGE 452 ===
FIRST AID FOR SEIZURES

癫痫发作的急救

If your animal experiences a seizure, gently protect his head from sharp or hard objects until the episode passes.

Don’t attempt to restrain the animal’s body—the muscle contractions of a violent convulsion can be self-injurious if

the animal cannot move and jerk about freely. Never place your hand in or near your animal’s mouth during a

seizure—your companion may be unaware of your presence and may unknowingly bite you with incredible force! If

you are indoors during the episode, dimming the lights and speaking softly to your companion helps reduce the fear

and confusion that sometimes precedes and usually follows the episode. Rescue Remedy rubbed on the ears before,

during, and after a seizure sometimes helps moderate the episode and calm the animal. Be sure to take a hearty dose

yourself!

如果您的动物癫痫发作，请轻轻保护其头部免受尖锐或坚硬物体的伤害，直到发作过去。不要试图限制动

物的身体——如果动物无法自由移动和抽搐，剧烈抽搐的肌肉收缩可能会造成自残。在癫痫发作期间，切

勿将手放入或靠近动物的嘴中 - 您的同伴可能没有意识到您的存在，并可能在不知不觉中以令人难以置信

的力量咬您！如果您在发作期间在室内，调暗灯光并轻声与同伴说话有助于减少发作前后有时出现的恐惧

和困惑。在癫痫发作之前、期间和之后将救援药物涂在耳朵上有时有助于缓解发作并使动物平静下来。一

定要自己吃足剂量！

=== PAGE 453 ===
EYE PROBLEMS

眼睛问题

Many eye problems are just subtle signs of chronic underlying diseases. You might think your animal is the “picture

of perfect health,” but if he has runny eyes or the beginning of cataracts, these conditions indicate that there is an

underlying imbalance. Many times herbs alone are not enough to correct that imbalance. A vet who is trained well in

classic homeopathy can address the underlying disease and help the body heal itself.

许多眼睛问题只是慢性基础疾病的微妙征兆。您可能认为您的动物“完美健康”，但如果他流泪或开始出现

白内障，这些情况表明存在潜在的不平衡。很多时候，仅靠草药不足以纠正这种不平衡。在经典顺势疗法

方面接受过良好培训的兽医可以解决潜在的疾病并帮助身体自我治愈。

In some cases of simple infection or irritation, an herbal wash of saline solution and raspberry leaf tea clears up

the problem immediately. In other cases, eye problems mark the beginning of a lifelong course of holistic therapy.

在某些简单感染或刺激的情况下，用盐水溶液和覆盆子叶茶进行草药清洗可以立即解决问题。在其他情

况下，眼睛问题标志着终身整体治疗过程的开始。

=== PAGE 454 ===
CATARACTS

白内障

Cataracts are white opacities that block the passage of light into the eyes. They are caused by loss of water or

rearrangement of fibrous tissue in the eye lens. Formation of cataracts (known as senile cataracts) is a normal part of

the aging process. They seldom result in blindness and usually cause little or no vision impairment in older animals,

even if the pupils take on the blue-white hue that is characteristic of the condition. Cataracts sometimes involve

leakage of lens protein into the inner eye. When this happens, an immune response is triggered and the animal

suffers serious inflammation of the eye.

白内障是一种白色混浊物，阻碍光线进入眼睛。它们是由晶状体失水或纤维组织重新排列引起的。白内障

（称为老年性白内障）的形成是衰老过程的正常部分。它们很少导致失明，并且通常对老年动物造成很少

或根本没有视力损害，即使瞳孔呈现出该病特有的蓝白色调。白内障有时会导致晶状体蛋白渗漏到内眼

中。当这种情况发生时，就会触发免疫反应，动物的眼睛会出现严重的炎症。

Providing a well-balanced natural diet throughout an animal’s life is the surest way to prevent the development of

problematic cataracts. In cats, cataracts have been linked with vitamin B2 (riboflavin) deficiency, a problem that

stems more from poor nutrient assimilation than it does from lack of vitamin B2 in the average feline diet. Lactation

is also believed to deplete the feline body of B2. Therefore, dietary supplementation of the digestive enzymes and

probiotics necessary to metabolize B2 is an important part of cataract prevention—especially in nursing cats. Other

recommended vitamin supplements include glutathione, vitamin C, CoQ10, proanthocyanidin complex, vitamin E,

and dimethylglycine.

在动物的一生中提供均衡的天然饮食是预防白内障问题发生的最可靠方法。对于猫来说，白内障与维生

素 B 2 （核黄素）缺乏有关，对于普通猫科动物来说，这一问题更多地源于营养吸收不良，而不是缺乏维生

素 B 2 饮食。哺乳期也被认为会消耗猫体内的 B 2 。因此，通过饮食补充代谢 B 2 所需的消化酶和益生菌是

预防白内障的重要组成部分，尤其是对于哺乳期的猫。其他推荐的维生素补充剂包括谷胱甘肽、维生素

C、辅酶 Q 10 、原花青素复合物、维生素 E 和二甲基甘氨酸。

A SIMPLE ASTRINGENT EYEWASH

简单的收敛洗眼液

Using a clean dropper bottle, combine the following:

使用干净的滴管瓶，混合以下物质：

½ tsp of cooled clear raspberry leaf or nettle tea 2

½ 茶匙冷却的透明覆盆子叶或荨麻茶 2

½ tsp of Oregon grape or goldenseal tea 2

½ 茶匙俄勒冈葡萄或金印茶 2

Add 1 oz of sterile saline (available in the eye care section of supermarkets and pharmacies)

添加1盎司无菌生理盐水（超市和药店的眼科护理部分有售）

Shake the mixture thoroughly—the finished solution should be tinted yellow.

彻底摇匀混合物——最终的溶液应呈黄色。

If possible, hold the animal’s head to one side and use a dropper pipette to thoroughly rinse the eye laterally,

from the nose outward, toward the animal’s cheek. The idea is to wash any irritating particles away from the

animal’s eye. This process can be repeated two or three times daily until the condition improves. If the rinse

causes further irritation, stop using it—your companion may be sensitive to the herb you are using. Other

=== PAGE 455 ===
herbs to consider for use in eyewashes include calendula, chamomile, thyme, bee balm, chickweed,

dandelion leaf, or rose petals. Regardless of which herbs you use, be extra careful in assuring that they are

free of dust, pollen, or toxic residues (such as herbicides or car exhaust), as the eyes are extremely sensitive

to such foreign substances.

如果可能，将动物的头放在一侧，并使用滴管从鼻子向外向动物的脸颊横向彻底冲洗眼睛。这个想

法是为了洗掉动物眼睛上的任何刺激性颗粒。这个过程可以每天重复两到三次，直到病情改善。如

果冲洗液引起进一步刺激，请停止使用——您的同伴可能对您正在使用的草药敏感。其他可考虑用

于洗眼的草药包括金盏花、洋甘菊、百里香、蜂香、繁缕、蒲公英叶或玫瑰花瓣。无论您使用哪种

草药，都要格外小心，确保它们没有灰尘、花粉或有毒残留物（例如除草剂或汽车尾气），因为眼

睛对这些异物极其敏感。

An herbal wash may clear up a simple eye infection or irritation.

草药洗剂可以消除简单的眼部感染或刺激。

=== PAGE 456 ===
Homeopathic eyedrops may eliminate cataracts.

顺势疗法眼药水可以消除白内障。

Both conventional and herbal approaches to treating cataracts are limited. Conventional treatment includes

cataract surgery, a procedure that can be very effective. While some herbalists claim that a small dab of eucalyptus

honey applied to the inside of the lower eyelid each day for several weeks can reduce the opacity of the eye lens,

another approach involves the internal use of an ancient Chinese herbal formula called Hachimijiogan. Animal

studies have shown that Hachimijiogan is capable of slowing the progression of cataracts, especially if therapy

commences during early stages of the disease. Bilberry, when used in conjunction with vitamin E supplements, has

been shown to help stop progression of senile cataracts in humans. In this approach, a standardized (to 25 percent

anthocyanosides) bilberry extract is administered at a dose of 20-40 milligrams per 40 pounds of body weight, three

times daily.

治疗白内障的传统方法和草药方法都有限。常规治疗包括白内障手术，这种手术非常有效。虽然一些草

药医生声称，每天在下眼睑内侧涂抹少量桉树蜂蜜，持续数周可以减少眼睛晶状体的混浊，但另一种方法

是内部使用一种名为八味姜黄的古老中草药配方。动物研究表明，八味姜丸能够减缓白内障的进展，特别

是在疾病的早期阶段开始治疗。越橘与维生素 E 补充剂一起使用时，已被证明有助于阻止人类老年性白内

障的进展。在这种方法中，标准化（花青素含量为 25%）越橘提取物的给药剂量为每 40 磅体重 20-40 毫

克，每天 3 次。

According to veterinarian Susan G. Wynn, homeopathic preparation eye-drops made from the juice of Cineraria

maritima can be effective for eliminating cataracts in animals. Wynn says to dilute the drops by half with artificial

tears (sterile saline solution) because the juice stings when used full strength. When using this method, she

sometimes sees cataracts disappear in two to three months.

兽医苏珊·韦恩 (Susan G. Wynn) 表示，用瓜叶菊汁制成的顺势疗法滴眼剂可以有效消除动物的白内障。

韦恩说，要用人工泪液（无菌盐水溶液）将滴液稀释一半，因为当全力使用时，汁液会产生刺痛感。使用

这种方法时，她有时会看到白内障在两到三个月内消失。

=== PAGE 457 ===
CONJUNCTIVITIS

结膜炎

Conjunctivitis is a generic term that refers to inflammation of the mucous membranes and soft tissues surrounding

the eye. The problem occurs when bacteria, fungi, or other foreign substances come in contact with these tissues and

tearing fails to eliminate the irritating elements. Most cases are acute and are caused by dust, plant material, or other

environmental irritants. In these cases, a simple saline eye rinse usually brings relief. An astringent eyewash using

raspberry leaf or nettle tea combined with a tea of certified organic goldenseal or Oregon grape root offers further

assistance by fighting infection and quickly reducing inflammation and soreness.

结膜炎是一个通用术语，是指眼睛周围的粘膜和软组织的炎症。当细菌、真菌或其他异物与这些组织接触

并且撕裂无法消除刺激性元素时，就会出现问题。大多数病例都是急性病例，由灰尘、植物材料或其他环

境刺激物引起。在这些情况下，简单的盐水洗眼通常可以缓解症状。使用覆盆子叶或荨麻茶与经过认证的

有机金印或俄勒冈葡萄根茶混合的收敛洗眼液可通过对抗感染并快速减轻炎症和酸痛提供进一步的帮助。

=== PAGE 458 ===
GLAUCOMA

青光眼

Glaucoma involves abnormally high inner eye pressure. It can occur in most animals, but it is especially common in

cats and in certain breeds of dogs. The disease is often secondary to other intraocular diseases such as inflammatory

adhesions and tumors. Signs of glaucoma may include swollen or reddened eyes, dilated fixed pupils, loss of vision,

and corneal edema. Conventional approaches to glaucoma usually involve antiglaucoma drugs that help reduce

intraocular pressure. In some cases, corticosteroid therapies are used.

青光眼涉及异常高的内眼压。它可以发生在大多数动物中，但在猫和某些品种的狗中尤其常见。该疾病通

常继发于其他眼内疾病，例如炎性粘连和肿瘤。青光眼的症状可能包括眼睛肿胀或发红、瞳孔散大、视力

丧失和角膜水肿。治疗青光眼的传统方法通常涉及有助于降低眼内压的抗青光眼药物。在某些情况下，使

用皮质类固醇疗法。

Although glaucoma is difficult to treat with herbs, perhaps the greatest success comes from the reduction of

intraocular pressure with herbs such as ginkgo and bilberry. Cannabis sativa (marijuana) can be effective, too, but,

of course, its accessibility is severely limited by legal restrictions.

虽然青光眼很难用草药治疗，但最大的成功也许来自于用银杏和越橘等草药降低眼内压。大麻（Cannabis

sativa）也可能有效，但当然，它的可及性受到法律限制的严重限制。

Coleus forskohlii, an herb that’s used in ayurvedic medicine, contains forskolin, a substance that has been shown

to significantly reduce intraocular pressure in humans, monkeys, and rabbits. However, its safety and effectiveness

in various other animals have yet to be determined.

毛喉锦紫苏是一种用于阿育吠陀医学的草药，含有毛喉素，这种物质已被证明可以显着降低人类、猴子

和兔子的眼内压。然而，其在其他各种动物中的安全性和有效性尚未确定。

=== PAGE 459 ===
FIRST AID

急救

BE PREPARED!

做好准备！

The old scout motto “Be Prepared” really rings true if you’re out walking your dog and he is attacked by another

dog, cuts himself on barbed wire, or sprains his paw while playing Frisbee. Having a first aid kit specially designed

for your animal and knowing how to use it provides insurance for the well-being of your companion. Taking a

course from the Red Cross or a local vet, kennel, or shelter enables you to deal with everything from life-threatening

emergencies to minor cuts and sprains.

如果你出去遛狗，而他被另一只狗攻击，被铁丝网割伤，或者在玩飞盘时扭伤了爪子，那么古老的童子军

座右铭“做好准备”确实是正确的。拥有专为您的动物设计的急救箱并了解如何使用它可以为您的同伴的健

康提供保障。参加红十字会或当地兽医、狗舍或庇护所的课程可以让您处理从危及生命的紧急情况到轻微

割伤和扭伤的各种情况。

In addition to the basic first aid necessities (plenty of gauze dressings and bandages, tweezers, cotton swabs, a

bulb syringe, and a variety of herbal medicines), we also carry a homeopathic travel kit with us wherever we go.

Homeopathic remedies are compact, convenient, effective, and especially useful for emergency situations. It’s also

important to learn canine and feline cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) and the ABCs of basic first aid.

Regardless of how extensive your first aid kit or classroom training might be, everything you compile is functionally

useless if you are unable to react properly in a crisis situation. The most crucial aspects of emergency preparedness

are proactive study and mental conditioning. An emergency situation is a poor time to read up on what to do or give.

During a crisis, time is of the essence, especially if your companion is bleeding severely or having a difficult time

breathing. When placed under the stress of an emotional, adrenaline-pumped situation (such as after you watch your

cat get hit by a careless motorist), the human mind loses much of its ability to formulate an effective plan of action

—the mind begins to race, the knees start to shake, dizziness sets in, and it’s difficult to think. Instead of thinking

the situation through, the brain must react by instinct. If there is no plan imbedded deep in the mind’s subconscious,

panic sets in and all control of the situation is lost to a rampant avalanche of emotion and confusion.

除了基本的急救必需品（大量纱布敷料和绷带、镊子、棉签、灯泡注射器和各种草药）外，我们还随身

携带顺势疗法旅行包。顺势疗法紧凑、方便、有效，对于紧急情况特别有用。学习犬科动物和猫科动物的

心肺复苏 (CPR) 以及基本急救知识也很重要。无论您的急救箱或课堂培训有多么广泛，如果您无法在危机

情况下做出正确反应，那么您编写的所有内容在功能上都是毫无用处的。应急准备最关键的是主动学习和

心理调节。紧急情况不适合阅读该做什么或该给予什么。在危机期间，时间至关重要，尤其是当您的同伴

流血严重或呼吸困难时。当处于情绪激动、肾上腺素激增的情况下（例如当你看到你的猫被粗心的驾车者

撞到后）时，人类的大脑会失去制定有效行动计划的大部分能力——大脑开始竞速膝盖开始颤抖，头晕目

眩，难以思考。大脑必须本能地做出反应，而不是仔细考虑情况。如果没有深植于大脑潜意识深处的计

划，恐慌就会随之而来，对局势的所有控制都会因情绪和混乱的蔓延而失去。

IDEAS FOR A FIRST AID KIT

急救箱的想法

Place some of the following items in a water-resistant carrying case:

将以下一些物品放入防水手提箱中：

• Blankets, extra collars, leashes, muzzles, water bowls

• 毯子、额外项圈、皮带、口套、水碗

=== PAGE 460 ===
• Gauze, bandages, small flashlight, scissors, tweezers, swabs, Vetwrap™, hemostats, rectal

thermometer (with case), ear scope, hydrogen peroxide (for use as an emetic in certain poisonings, as

well as an antibacterial wound wash), activated charcoal powder (for poisonings); preserved, sterile

saline solution (for washing out wounds and eyes and to wash minor burns)

• 纱布、绷带、小手电筒、剪刀、镊子、棉签、Vetwrap ™ 、止血钳、直肠温度计（带盒）、耳

镜、过氧化氢（在某些中毒时用作催吐剂，以及抗菌伤口清洗液）、活性炭粉（用于中

毒）；保存的无菌盐水溶液（用于清洗伤口和眼睛以及清洗轻微烧伤）

• Herbal salve, Rescue Remedy, cayenne pepper and yarrow mix (to stop bleeding), herbal tinctures

such as Oregon grape and echinacea

• 草药膏、救援药物、辣椒和西洋蓍草混合物（用于止血）、草药酊剂（例如俄勒冈葡萄和紫锥

花）

• A list of items in the kit and brief descriptions of how they are used

• 套件中的物品清单及其使用方法的简要说明

First aid kits for animals are available through many catalogs, and you can add your own items to personalize

the one you choose. A catalog company called PetSage carries several nice ones, including one for birds.

许多目录中都提供动物急救箱，您可以添加自己的物品来个性化您选择的物品。一家名为 PetSage 的

目录公司提供了几款不错的产品，其中包括一款鸟类产品。

ECHINACEA AND OREGON GRAPE CLAY POULTICE

紫锥菊和俄勒冈葡萄泥膏

Combine the following:

结合以下内容：

4 oz green or bentonite clay

4 盎司绿色粘土或膨润土

(powder)3

（粉末） 3

½ oz echinacea tincture

½ 盎司紫锥菊酊剂

(alcohol based)

（基于酒精）

½ oz Oregon grape tincture

½ 盎司俄勒冈葡萄酊剂

(alcohol based)

（基于酒精）

Bentonite clay that is sold at hardware and feed stores often contains harmful bacteria and other impurities.

Alcohol-based tinctures (as opposed to glycerin-based) are preferable because they add astringency to the

formula and serve as preservatives in a poultice that is saved for future use. Thoroughly combine the three

ingredients, adding just enough distilled water to make a thick paste. The poultice can then be applied to the

affected areas and left on to dry, if possible. Leftover poultice can be put into an airtight container and stored

=== PAGE 461 ===
in the refrigerator almost indefinitely. If it dries out, just add more water or tincture to soften it.

五金店和饲料店出售的膨润土通常含有有害细菌和其他杂质。酒精酊剂（相对于甘油酊剂）更可

取，因为它们会在配方中添加收敛剂，并在膏剂中充当防腐剂，以供将来使用。将三种成分彻底混

合，加入足够的蒸馏水，制成浓稠的糊状物。如果可能的话，可以将药膏涂在受影响的区域并晾

干。剩余的药膏可以放入密封容器中并几乎无限期地存放在冰箱中。如果它变干，只需添加更多的

水或酊剂来软化它。

Panic is our worst enemy in an emergency situation because the confusion it causes paralyzes our abilities to take

effective actions. It’s best to prepare for stressful emergency situations before they occur. This is done by visualizing

crisis situations so that the mind is better prepared to respond intuitively and effectively when a real emergency

occurs. For instance, if you are an avid backcountry equestrian, spend some time each week with your eyes closed,

imagining various emergency situations that could occur to you and your companion on your upcoming trail trips.

Be creative but realistic in your visualization of each unfortunate event—imagine the fall, your companion’s pain

and terror, your racing heart, and the initial surge of panic and doubt that starts to envelop you. Then imagine

overcoming that surge and taking control of your emotions to assess the situation. Imagine opening your first aid kit

and systematically selecting the items your companion needs as you calm him down by softly petting him and

assuring him that you are in charge of the situation. Imagine yourself remedying the situation and knowing that

everything will be fine.

在紧急情况下，恐慌是我们最大的敌人，因为它造成的混乱使我们无法采取有效行动。最好在紧张的紧

急情况发生之前做好准备。这是通过想象危机情况来完成的，以便在真正的紧急情况发生时，大脑能够更

好地做出直观、有效的反应。例如，如果您是一名狂热的野外马术爱好者，请每周花一些时间闭上眼睛，

想象一下您和您的同伴在即将到来的越野旅行中可能会发生的各种紧急情况。在想象每一个不幸事件时要

有创意但现实——想象一下跌倒、你同伴的痛苦和恐惧、你的心跳加速，以及最初开始笼罩你的恐慌和怀

疑的浪潮。然后想象一下克服这种激增并控制自己的情绪来评估情况。想象一下，打开你的急救箱，系统

地选择你的同伴需要的物品，同时轻轻地抚摸他，让他平静下来，并向他保证你能掌控局势。想象一下你

自己正在纠正这种情况，并且知道一切都会好起来的。

When we worked in emergency services, we called this exercise “crisis rehearsal”—others call it “creative

visualization.” To some of you, this may sound like a program for paranoia, but it is quite the opposite. Paranoia is

born from fear and a conscious sense of being helpless and out of control. Crisis rehearsal builds confidence and

subconsciously prepares the mind for unforeseeable events. Each time you practice this technique, your

subconscious mind stores experiential memories from which to act in emergencies. In other words, you don’t need

to think, worry, or be paranoid of unforeseeable possibilities each time you take your companion on an adventure—

instead, you have the elements of effective crisis management stored beneath the enjoyment of your adventure,

where instinct can retrieve and use them if the need arises. This is an extremely effective technique for preparing for

the worst. It has saved our lives and the lives of others more than a few times. Crisis rehearsal can make the

difference between life and death for you and your companion.

当我们在紧急服务部门工作时，我们将这种练习称为“危机预演”，其他人则称之为“创意可视化”。对于你

们中的一些人来说，这可能听起来像是一个偏执狂的程序，但事实恰恰相反。偏执症源于恐惧和一种有意

识的无助和失控感。危机预演可以建立信心，并在潜意识中为不可预见的事件做好准备。每次练习这种技

巧时，你的潜意识都会储存经验记忆，以便在紧急情况下采取行动。换句话说，每次带你的同伴去冒险

时，你不需要思考、担心或偏执于不可预见的可能性——相反，你在冒险的乐趣之下储存了有效的危机管

理要素，其中本能如果需要，可以检索并使用它们。这是为最坏情况做好准备的极其有效的技术。它多次

拯救了我们和他人的生命。危机预演可以决定您和您同伴的生死。

FIRST AID OIL FOR CONTUSIONS AND BLUNT TRAUMA

INJURIES

用于治疗挫伤和钝性创伤的急救油

Combine equal parts of the following oil infusions4:

将等量的下列油注入 4 混合：

Yarrow

=== PAGE 462 ===
西洋蓍草

Comfrey

紫草属

Saint-John’s-wort

圣约翰草

Apply this first aid oil immediately to blunt injuries where subdermal bleeding is evident. After a day or two

when the bleeding has stopped and the healing process has begun, arnica oil can be applied sparingly to the

injury site for up to three days (any longer might irritate the skin). This will help move congested fluids out

of the injured area by opening up capillaries.

立即将这种急救油涂抹在皮下出血明显的钝伤处。一两天后，当出血停止并且愈合过程开始时，可

以将山金车油少量涂抹在受伤部位，最多持续三天（时间再长可能会刺激皮肤）。这将有助于通过

打开毛细血管将充血的液体排出受伤区域。

=== PAGE 463 ===
BITES AND STINGS

咬伤和蜇伤

If your companion receives a bite or a sting, the first course of action is to try to identify what launched the attack.

Of course, this is not always possible, but if you can learn about the nature of the bite or sting, you will be more

effective at treating it. In most cases, the primary course of action is to minimize pain, swelling, and the possibility

of infection with the use of astringent and antimicrobial herbs. A poultice or infusion of plantain, sage, bee balm,

mullein, calendula, or chamomile can be directly applied to the site of an insect bite or sting for these purposes. To

make a poultice, simply mash a few fresh leaves of the herb with a small amount of water to make a crude pestolike

paste. In the field, the herb can be crushed and chewed in your mouth, then applied as a paste to the wound. Oregon

grape, goldenseal, myrrh, thyme, or echinacea tincture, oil infusion, or salve can be applied to the area if stronger

antimicrobial agents are warranted. One or all of these herbal preparations are excellent choices for building a first

aid kit. An infusion of rosemary can be used for a bite or sting to gently bathe and soothe the surrounding area.

Adding 6–8 drops of tea tree oil diluted in 1 ounce of water is also good for direct application to bites and stings, but

be careful with animals who have sensitive skin—the oil is strong.

如果您的同伴被咬或被蜇，首先要做的就是尝试确定是什么发起了攻击。当然，这并不总是可能的，但如

果您能够了解咬伤或刺痛的性质，您将能够更有效地治疗它。在大多数情况下，主要的做法是使用收敛剂

和抗菌草药来尽量减少疼痛、肿胀和感染的可能性。出于这些目的，可以将车前草、鼠尾草、蜂香膏、毛

蕊花、金盏花或洋甘菊的膏剂或浸液直接涂抹在昆虫叮咬或蜇伤的部位。要制作膏剂，只需将几片新鲜的

草药叶子与少量水捣碎，制成粗制的香蒜酱。在野外，可以将这种草药压碎并放在嘴里咀嚼，然后将其制

成糊状涂在伤口上。如果需要更强的抗菌剂，可以将俄勒冈葡萄、白毛茛、没药、百里香或紫锥菊酊剂、

浸油或药膏涂抹在该区域。这些草药制剂中的一种或全部都是构建急救箱的绝佳选择。迷迭香浸液可用于

治疗叮咬或刺痛，轻轻沐浴并舒缓周围区域。将 6-8 滴茶树油稀释在 1 盎司水中，也可以直接涂抹在叮咬

处，但要小心皮肤敏感的动物——茶树油的浓度很高。

For severe welts and inflammation, strong astringents such as decoctions of uva ursi, rose bark, white oak bark, or

juniper leaves can be liberally applied to affected areas. A clay poultice made with bentonite clay is also effective,

especially when herbs such as echinacea and Oregon grape are added to support lymphatic functions and inhibit

infection. When applied to the site of a sting or bite, the clay pulls antigens away from the body to reduce swelling

and help prevent capillary transport of venom into other areas.

对于严重的伤痕和炎症，可以在受影响的部位涂抹强效收敛剂，例如熊果、玫瑰皮、白橡树皮或杜松叶

的煎剂。用膨润土制成的粘土膏剂也很有效，特别是当添加紫锥菊和俄勒冈葡萄等草药来支持淋巴功能和

抑制感染时。当将其涂在被蜇伤或咬伤的部位时，粘土会将抗原从体内拉走，以减少肿胀，并有助于防止

毛细血管将毒液输送到其他区域。

Bites from toxic spiders, such as the brown recluse or black widow, or venomous snakes should be immediately

followed with large doses of vitamin C and echinacea to build the body’s immune defenses and increase lymphatic

cleansing of involved tissues. Immediate administration of the appropriate homeopathic remedy is also highly

advisable. In the case of a bee or wasp sting, the homeopathic remedies Apis and Ledum help relieve stinging and

swelling. If there is an anaphylactic reaction, or if the airway is compromised in any way, get to a veterinarian

immediately. If you already know that your companion is predisposed to acute allergic reactions, you should be

carrying a prescription injectable epinephrine and antihistamine kit (Anakit or Epipen) that helps to antidote your

animal’s reaction to insect or reptile venoms. See your veterinarian about obtaining a kit.

被有毒蜘蛛（如棕隐士蜘蛛、黑寡妇蜘蛛）或毒蛇咬伤后，应立即服用大剂量的维生素 C 和紫锥菊，以

增强身体的免疫防御能力，并加强对相关组织的淋巴净化。强烈建议立即采取适当的顺势疗法。如果被蜜

蜂或黄蜂蜇伤，顺势疗法蜜蜂和杜香有助于缓解刺痛和肿胀。如果出现过敏反应，或者气道受到任何损

害，请立即去看兽医。如果您已经知道您的同伴容易发生急性过敏反应，您应该携带处方注射肾上腺素和

抗组胺药盒（Anakit 或 Epipen），以帮助解毒您的动物对昆虫或爬行动物毒液的反应。请咨询您的兽医以

获取套件。

=== PAGE 464 ===
BRUISES, BUMPS, AND OTHER BLUNT TRAUMAS

瘀伤、肿块和其他钝伤

Contusions (bruises) are caused when blunt impact or crushing pressure causes tissue damage and bleeding beneath

the skin. In humans, contusions are usually characterized by their purplish red color. Because animals have different

skin pigments and hair, feathers, fur, or scales to hide such evidence of injury, contusions and other forms of

traumatic, subdermal hematoma must be identified by other symptoms. Usually there is swelling and tenderness at

the site of a contusion. The animal may favor or lick the injured body area. Close examination (beneath the animal’s

coat) usually reveals discoloration at the site.

当钝器撞击或挤压压力导致组织损伤和皮下出血时，就会造成挫伤（瘀伤）。在人类中，挫伤通常以紫红

色为特征。由于动物具有不同的皮肤色素和毛发、羽毛、皮毛或鳞片来隐藏此类损伤、挫伤和其他形式的

外伤、皮下血肿的证据，因此必须通过其他症状来识别。通常挫伤部位会出现肿胀和压痛。动物可能会喜

欢或舔受伤的身体部位。仔细检查（在动物皮毛下面）通常会发现该部位变色。

Since contusions are contained beneath the skin, the risk of infection is low (provided the animal is healthy to

begin with). First aid usually begins with applying an ice pack to slow bleeding and assist the coagulation process.

Contrary to what some herbalists may think, arnica oil or salve is sometimes contraindicated in the early treatment

of contusions or subdermal hematoma. Arnica, a peripheral vasodilator that works rapidly, may actually increase

bleeding at the site of injury. Instead of reaching for your handy first aid vial of arnica oil, reach for an oil infusion

of yarrow. Yarrow is remarkable because it acts as a vasodilator when ingested but as a fast-acting vasoconstrictor

and hemostatic agent when applied topically. This makes it very useful for reducing the severity of fresh contusions,

especially when combined with an oil infusion of Saint-John’s-wort. Having a special affinity toward the repair of

crushed nerve endings, Saint-John’s-wort helps to relieve pain and minimize the possibility of lasting nerve

impairment. Comfrey oil, salve, and poultice are also excellent first aid devices for blunt trauma injuries because

they gently assist with lymph circulation without contributing to internal bleeding, and they accelerate the

regeneration of damaged cell structures.

由于挫伤位于皮下，因此感染的风险很低（只要动物一开始就健康）。急救通常从使用冰袋来减缓出血

并协助凝血过程开始。与一些草药医生的想法相反，山金车油或药膏有时在挫伤或皮下血肿的早期治疗中

是禁忌的。山金车是一种快速起效的外周血管扩张剂，实际上可能会增加受伤部位的出血。不要伸手去拿

手边的急救瓶山金车油，而是伸手去拿西洋蓍草油。西洋蓍草之所以引人注目，是因为它在摄入时可起到

血管扩张剂的作用，但在局部使用时可起到快速作用的血管收缩剂和止血剂的作用。这使得它对于减轻新

鲜挫伤的严重程度非常有用，特别是与圣约翰草油浸液结合使用时。圣约翰草对修复受损的神经末梢具有

特殊的亲和力，有助于缓解疼痛并最大限度地减少持久神经损伤的可能性。紫草油、药膏和膏药也是治疗

钝性创伤的极佳急救工具，因为它们可以温和地促进淋巴循环，而不会导致内出血，并且可以加速受损细

胞结构的再生。

=== PAGE 465 ===
BURNS AND SCALDS

烧伤和烫伤

There are two important considerations to keep in mind when your companion suffers a burn. One is that until the

site of the injury cools down, cellular damage can continue for several minutes after a burn first occurs. This is

especially true if the burn was caused by steam or scalding fluid, which can penetrate tissues and carry injurious heat

deep beneath the skin. Another consideration to keep in mind is that when the skin is damaged, its ability to resist

infection is greatly impaired. To defend itself against invading bacteria, the skin relies upon delicate cell membranes

and thousands of tiny capillaries to carry lymph, blood, and various antibodies throughout its structure. When a burn

occurs, circulation is obstructed within the site of injury, and the deprived tissues are left vulnerable to infection.

当您的同伴被烧伤时，需要记住两个重要的注意事项。一是在烧伤部位冷却之前，细胞损伤可能会在烧伤

发生后持续几分钟。如果烧伤是由蒸汽或滚烫液体引起的，则尤其如此，因为蒸汽或滚烫液体可以穿透组

织并将有害热量带到皮肤深处。另一个需要记住的考虑因素是，当皮肤受损时，其抵抗感染的能力会大大

受损。为了抵御入侵的细菌，皮肤依靠脆弱的细胞膜和数千个微小的毛细血管在其整个结构中携带淋巴

液、血液和各种抗体。当烧伤发生时，受伤部位的血液循环会受到阻碍，受损的组织很容易受到感染。

The first course in treating a burn is to cool it down. Ideally, the site of the burn should be liberally irrigated with

cool sterile saline, which greatly reduces the continued destruction of cells. If sterile saline is not available, clean

water (preferably distilled), snow, or ice can be generously applied—just keep in mind that the area you are

irrigating is especially susceptible to any infectious microbes that may be in the water (i.e., the cleaner it is, the

better). Never apply a salve, oil, or ointment to a burn—these types of preparations can seal in heat and bacteria,

making the situation worse. Don’t cover the burned area with a bandage either unless you will be able to keep the

dressing continually soaked with cool, clean water.

治疗烧伤的第一个步骤是冷却烧伤。理想情况下，烧伤部位应该用冷无菌盐水充分冲洗，这大大减少了

细胞的持续破坏。如果没有无菌盐水，可以大量使用干净的水（最好是蒸馏水）、雪或冰——请记住，您

正在灌溉的区域特别容易受到水中可能存在的任何传染性微生物的影响（即，越干净越好）。切勿在烧伤

处涂抹药膏、油或药膏——这些类型的制剂会锁住热量和细菌，使情况变得更糟。也不要用绷带覆盖烧伤

区域，除非您能够使敷料持续被凉爽、干净的水浸泡。

If the burn appears to be deep (second or third degree) or if it involves the mouth, nose, feet, or a large percentage

of the animal’s body, get the animal to a veterinarian immediately—the situation might be serious.

如果烧伤看起来很深（二度或三度），或者涉及到动物的嘴、鼻子、脚或身体的很大一部分，请立即将

动物送往兽医处，情况可能会很严重。

The second course of action (for minor burns) is to take continuing measures to assure that the burn is kept clean.

Irrigate the burn several times each day with sterile saline. Aloe juice can be directly applied to the burn after each

irrigation to help fight infection, reduce pain, and speed the healing process. A cooled tea of chaparral, calendula, or

gotu kola can be effective for these purposes as well, as might a poultice of fresh chickweed. Comfrey is useful too,

but it should not be applied until you are absolutely sure that the risk of infection has passed. Comfrey heals wounds

so fast that it can seal bacteria or fungi into the wound! A skin rinse of chamomile, peppermint, catnip, bee balm, or

thyme may bring relief from pain. Lavender oil (8 drops diluted into each ounce of clean water) is also good for

relieving the pain of burns and scalds.

第二个行动方案（针对轻微烧伤）是采取持续措施以确保烧伤处保持清洁。每天用无菌盐水冲洗烧伤部

位数次。每次冲洗后，芦荟汁可以直接涂在烧伤处，以帮助抵抗感染、减轻疼痛并加速愈合过程。丛林

树、金盏花或雷公根的凉茶也能有效达到这些目的，新鲜繁缕的膏剂也能有效达到这些目的。紫草也很有

用，但在您完全确定感染风险已经过去之前不应使用。紫草治愈伤口的速度非常快，可以将细菌或真菌封

入伤口！用洋甘菊、薄荷、猫薄荷、蜂香膏或百里香进行皮肤冲洗可以缓解疼痛。薰衣草油（每盎司清水

中稀释 8 滴）也有助于缓解烧伤和烫伤的疼痛。

The homeopathic remedies Apis and Urtica spp. (nettle) are effective treatments for burns. We keep a bottle of

diluted Urtica tincture in our kitchen for use on burns. It takes the sting away immediately and prevents blistering. It

can also be given internally.

=== PAGE 466 ===
顺势疗法是蜜蜂和荨麻属。 （荨麻）是治疗烧伤的有效方法。我们在厨房里放了一瓶稀释的荨麻酊剂，

用于治疗烧伤。它可以立即消除刺痛并防止起泡。也可以内部给予。

To help the healing process from inside out, dietary supplements of vitamins C and E are important, as are fatty

acids. Gotu kola can be added to an animal’s diet to help with skin regeneration, as can horsetail.

为了帮助从内到外的愈合过程，维生素 C 和 E 以及脂肪酸的膳食补充剂很重要。雷公根可以添加到动物

的饮食中，以帮助皮肤再生，木贼也可以。

=== PAGE 467 ===
FRACTURES

骨折

Obviously, herbs cannot be expected to realign and set a broken bone, but a variety of herbs are useful throughout

the postclinical healing process. Horsetail, nettle, comfrey, and alfalfa all contain nutritional components that play

important roles in the healing of bone tissue. Yarrow and ginkgo help by increasing blood circulation in impaired

extremities. Licorice, yucca, devil’s claw, Saint-John’s-wort, and cayenne are all useful for reducing inflammation

and pain. Valerian, skullcap, passionflower, or hop can be used to help a recovering animal rest and relax.

显然，不能指望草药能够重新排列和固定断骨，但多种草药在整个临床后愈合过程中都是有用的。马尾

草、荨麻、紫草和苜蓿都含有在骨组织愈合中发挥重要作用的营养成分。西洋蓍草和银杏有助于增加受损

四肢的血液循环。甘草、丝兰、魔爪草、圣约翰草和辣椒都有助于减轻炎症和疼痛。缬草、黄芩、西番莲

或啤酒花可用于帮助恢复中的动物休息和放松。

=== PAGE 468 ===
HEATSTROKE, HYPERTHERMIA, AND HEAT EXHAUSTION

中暑、高热和热衰竭

Heatstroke or heat exhaustion can occur as a result of too much strenuous exercise or excessive exposure to heat. If

heatstroke is not treated immediately the animal’s body temperature may rise to irreversible levels and brain

damage, kidney failure, or death may quickly follow. Symptoms of heat illness include excessive panting or

difficulty breathing, high body temperature (above 104° F for a dog or cat), lethargy or collapse, loss of appetite,

bloody diarrhea or vomit, increased heart rate, increased respiratory rate, reddened tongue or eye tissues, hot and

flushed skin, and seizures or coma.

剧烈运动或过度受热可能会导致中暑或热衰竭。如果中暑不立即得到治疗，动物的体温可能会上升到不可

逆转的水平，并且很快就会出现脑损伤、肾衰竭或死亡。热病的症状包括过度气喘或呼吸困难、体温过高

（狗或猫高于 104°F）、嗜睡或虚脱、食欲不振、血性腹泻或呕吐、心率加快、呼吸频率加快、舌头发红或

发红。眼组织、皮肤发热、潮红、癫痫发作或昏迷。

ALL-PURPOSE FIRST AID OIL OR SALVE

通用急救油或药膏

Saint-John’s-wort oil infusion

圣约翰草油输液

Oregon Grape oil infusion

俄勒冈州葡萄油输液

Comfrey oil infusion

紫草油输液

1 oz grated beeswax

1 盎司磨碎的蜂蜡

Combine equal amounts of the oil infusions. Add the grated beeswax to the combined oils. Gently heat the

mixture over a low flame, stirring constantly until the beeswax has completely melted and combined with the

oils. Remove from heat and pour into salve jars immediately—it thickens as it cools.

混合等量的油浸液。将磨碎的蜂蜡添加到混合油中。用小火轻轻加热混合物，不断搅拌，直到蜂蜡

完全融化并与油混合。从火上移开并立即倒入药膏罐中——冷却时它会变稠。

Perhaps the most common cause of heat-related illness and death in dogs and cats occurs when they are left in

cars on a warm or hot day. Don’t ever leave your companion in the car unless the weather is mild, there is ample

shade to park under, the windows can be left rolled down, and the animal is left with plenty of drinking water. Even

on days that don’t seem hot, the temperature in a well-ventilated vehicle can exceed 100° F in a matter of minutes.

With the windows rolled up, the temperature can climb to 180° F (a steak cooks at 140° F)! Dogs and cats need to

pant and get fresh air to cool themselves. If you find an animal in a car that is closed up, try to contact the owner and

offer to give a bowl of water to his or her companion who “looks thirsty.” If done in a nonthreatening way, without

offending the person, you could save an animal’s life. If the person insists on letting the animal suffer, call the local

law enforcement agency.

狗和猫与热有关的疾病和死亡的最常见原因可能是当它们在温暖或炎热的天气里被留在车里时。永远不

要把你的同伴留在车里，除非天气温和、有足够的阴凉处可以停车、车窗可以摇下、并且动物有充足的饮

用水。即使在看起来不热的日子里，通风良好的车辆内的温度也可能在几分钟内超过 100°F。当车窗摇起

=== PAGE 469 ===
时，温度可升至 180°F（牛排的烹饪温度为 140°F）！狗和猫需要喘气并呼吸新鲜空气来给自己降温。如果

您在封闭的车内发现动物，请尝试联系车主并主动为“看起来口渴”的同伴提供一碗水。如果以不具威胁性

的方式进行，且不冒犯他人，您就可以挽救动物的生命。如果该人坚持让动物受苦，请致电当地执法机

构。

If your companion displays signs of heat-related illness, get to a cool area immediately, wet the animal with

water, and if possible, take the animal’s rectal temperature. If the animal’s temperature seems abnormally high, get

to a vet immediately. If you are carrying a homeopathic kit with you, you might try administering a dose of

Glonoinum (30C) while en route. Rescue Remedy (a flower essence formula) might be helpful as well. Allow your

animal to drink as much cool water as he needs.

如果您的同伴出现与热有关的疾病迹象，请立即前往凉爽的地方，用水弄湿动物，如果可能，测量动物

的直肠温度。如果动物的体温异常高，请立即去看兽医。如果您随身携带顺势疗法套件，您可以尝试在途

中服用一剂 Glonoinum (30C)。 Rescue Remedy（花精配方）也可能有帮助。让您的动物根据需要喝尽可能

多的凉水。

After the danger has passed and your companion appears to be recovering, you can begin replacing lost minerals

and nutrients by feeding him herbs such as nettle or chickweed tea.

危险过去并且您的同伴似乎正在康复后，您可以开始通过给他喂荨麻或繁缕茶等草药来补充失去的矿物

质和营养。

=== PAGE 470 ===
MOTION SICKNESS

晕车

Motion sickness is fairly common among dogs and cats, especially puppies and those who seldom take rides in cars.

The causes of motion sickness are varied. The inner ears of puppies and other young animals continue to develop

until the animals approach adolescence, which means that their equilibrium may be especially sensitive to motion.

Another factor comes into play in animals who are frightened or become hyperactive during car rides. In these

animals, extreme nervousness may cause stomach upset, dizziness, or hyperventilation, all of which can result in

vomiting.

晕车在狗和猫中相当常见，尤其是小狗和那些很少乘车的人。晕车的原因多种多样。小狗和其他幼年动物

的内耳持续发育，直到动物接近青春期，这意味着它们的平衡可能对运动特别敏感。另一个因素会影响动

物在乘车时受到惊吓或变得过度活跃。在这些动物中，极度紧张可能会导致胃部不适、头晕或换气过度，

所有这些都会导致呕吐。

In most cases, motion sickness becomes less of a problem as an animal matures or becomes accustomed to the

feeling of hurtling through space in a “crate on wheels.” Have you ever thought about how an animal might perceive

such an unnatural occurrence as a car ride? With this in mind, it’s important to help your companion to consider car

rides to be fun as early in life as possible. Make a point to play with your companion at the destinations of her first

couple dozen car trips to replace confusion and fear with anticipation of a good time. For many animals, this

approach is effective. We dearly remember riding to our mountain cabin with our dog Mollie on weekends. The

winding highway and steep ravines often made her nervous and carsick, so each time we reached the most

challenging part of the highway, we would begin saying to her, “Get your Frisbee! Get your stick! Do you want to

go swimming? Find the cat (her beloved friend and playmate)!” After a few verses of this, her mind would be so

focused on the playtime that would soon follow that she would forget about the frightening ride and car sickness

wasn’t a problem. Eventually, her nervousness during car rides was completely replaced by the thrill of another

adventure.

在大多数情况下，随着动物成熟或习惯了在“带轮子的板条箱”中飞驰穿过太空的感觉，晕动病就不再是

一个问题。您是否想过动物会如何看待开车这样的不自然事件？考虑到这一点，帮助您的伴侣尽早认识到

开车是一件很有趣的事情很重要。记得和你的同伴一起去她前几次汽车旅行的目的地玩，用对美好时光的

期待来取代困惑和恐惧。对于许多动物来说，这种方法是有效的。我们深深地记得周末和我们的狗莫莉一

起骑车去我们的山间小屋。蜿蜒的公路和陡峭的山沟经常让她紧张和晕车，所以每次我们到达公路上最有

挑战性的部分时，我们都会开始对她说：“拿起你的飞盘！拿起你的棍子！你想去游泳吗？找到那只猫（她

心爱的朋友和玩伴）！”读完几节之后，她的注意力就会集中在接下来的游戏时间上，以至于忘记了可怕的

旅程，晕车也不再是问题了。最终，她在乘车时的紧张完全被另一场冒险的兴奋所取代。

Of course, some animals may never get over motion sickness, and anything that might help is certainly

appreciated, especially if you’re sharing a subcompact sedan with a Newfoundland. Ginger, peppermint, catnip,

fennel, or dill might help relieve an upset stomach that might lead to vomiting. Ginkgo is known to improve blood

circulation in the inner ear and may help with equilibrium problems. Valerian helps calm a hyperactive animal and

also eases a nervous stomach. Skullcap, passionflower, and oatstraw are all excellent nervine-sedatives that can help

reduce nervous anxiety. Of course, before you try any of these (in combination or singularly), give Rescue Remedy

(flower essences) a try. A few drops on your animal’s tongue just before you get into the car might make the

difference between an unpleasant episode and a fun car ride.

当然，有些动物可能永远无法克服晕动病，任何可能有帮助的东西肯定会受到赞赏，特别是如果您与纽

芬兰共享一辆超小型轿车。生姜、薄荷、猫薄荷、茴香或莳萝可能有助于缓解可能导致呕吐的胃部不适。

众所周知，银杏可以改善内耳的血液循环，并可能有助于解决平衡问题。缬草有助于使过度活跃的动物平

静下来，也能缓解紧张的胃部症状。黄芩、西番莲和燕麦草都是极好的神经镇静剂，可以帮助减少神经焦

虑。当然，在尝试其中任何一种（组合或单独）之前，请先尝试一下 Rescue Remedy（花精）。在你上车之

前在你的动物的舌头上滴几滴可能会导致一次不愉快的经历和一次有趣的乘车之旅。

=== PAGE 471 ===
PENETRATING INJURIES (CUTS, SCRAPES, PUNCTURES)

穿透伤（割伤、擦伤、刺伤）

Penetrating injuries are part of life, especially if you have an active outdoor animal. Animals tolerate wounds much

better than we humans do, and provided animals have healthy lymph and immune systems and no blood-clotting

disorders, minor open injuries usually heal quickly and completely. The primary concern here is that the injury is

kept clean and as well ventilated as cleanliness allows. From a holistic perspective, an animal licking his open

wound is a natural part of the healing process. This is how animals cleanse wounds, and, in fact, the saliva of dogs

and cats contain antimicrobial properties that help fight infection and speed healing.

穿透伤是生活的一部分，特别是如果您有一只活跃的户外动物。动物比我们人类更能忍受伤口，只要动物

有健康的淋巴和免疫系统并且没有凝血障碍，轻微的开放性损伤通常会快速完全愈合。这里最主要的问题

是保持伤口清洁并在清洁允许的情况下保持良好的通风。从整体角度来看，动物舔开放性伤口是愈合过程

的自然组成部分。这就是动物清洁伤口的方式，事实上，狗和猫的唾液含有抗菌特性，有助于抵抗感染和

加速愈合。

At the onset of a penetrating injury, the first course of action is to make sure that the bleeding is in no way life

threatening. If bleeding is profuse, nothing serves as a better hemostatic agent than a half-and-half mix of powdered

cayenne and yarrow. When applied liberally and directly into a wound, these two herbs work amazingly well to stop

hemorrhage and inhibit infection. After the powder is applied, gauze compresses can then be placed on top to assist

the process and keep the injury clean. Treat for shock, and get your companion to a veterinarian immediately.

发生穿透伤时，首要措施是确保出血不会危及生命。如果出血较多，没有什么比辣椒粉和西洋蓍草各半

的混合物更好的止血剂了。当大量直接涂抹到伤口上时，这两种草药可以非常有效地止血和抑制感染。涂

抹粉末后，可以将纱布敷在上面以协助该过程并保持伤口清洁。治疗休克，并立即让您的同伴去看兽医。

If the wound does not appear to be life threatening, allow it to flush and seal itself, and thoroughly clean the site

with fresh water (use sterile saline if possible) or some hydrogen peroxide as soon as possible. Oregon grape,

goldenseal, Saint-John’s-wort, thyme, sage, echinacea, or yarrow tea or liniment can be used to irrigate the wound

each day to help prevent infection. Tea tree oil is effective too, but it must be diluted. Add 8 drops into 1 ounce of

olive, almond, or apricot kernel oil. Calendula, comfrey, gotu kola, or aloe can be added to the daily regimen after

risk of infection has passed to help speed the healing process and reduce scarring. Any or all of the herbs we just

mentioned can be used in the form of a first aid salve that is applied between each daily cleansing. The salve is also

useful for field treatment of minor wounds.

如果伤口看起来没有危及生命，请让它自行冲洗并密封，并尽快用淡水（如果可能，使用无菌盐水）或

一些过氧化氢彻底清洁该部位。每天可以使用俄勒冈葡萄、白毛茛、圣约翰草、百里香、鼠尾草、紫锥菊

或西洋蓍草茶或搽剂来冲洗伤口，以帮助预防感染。茶树油也有效，但必须稀释。将 8 滴加入 1 盎司橄榄

油、杏仁油或杏仁油中。感染风险过去后，可以将金盏花、紫草、积雪草或芦荟添加到日常护理中，以帮

助加快愈合过程并减少疤痕。我们刚才提到的任何或所有草药都可以以急救药膏的形式使用，在每次日常

清洁之间使用。该药膏还可用于现场治疗小伤口。

=== PAGE 472 ===
POISONING

中毒

A shocking number of companion animals die each year of poisoning. Some cases involve cruel human intent,

others an unfortunate discovery or accident. But most companion animal poisonings are the direct result of

carelessness. Improperly stored or disposed of automotive antifreeze fluid represents one of the most frequent causes

of accidental animal poisoning. Ethylene glycol, the compound found in antifreeze, has a sweet flavor that is

appealing to dogs, cats, and other animals. It destroys the kidneys, and as little as 1 tablespoon can be fatal to a

medium or large dog.

每年都有数量惊人的伴侣动物死于中毒。有些案件涉及残酷的人类意图，其他案件则涉及不幸的发现或事

故。但大多数伴侣动物中毒都是由于粗心大意造成的。汽车防冻液储存或处理不当是动物意外中毒的最常

见原因之一。乙二醇是防冻剂中的化合物，具有甜味，对狗、猫和其他动物很有吸引力。它会破坏肾脏，

只要一汤匙就可能对中型或大型狗致命。

Lead poisoning from old house paint, discarded batteries, spilled petroleum products, or industrial waste is also a

common cause of companion animal poisoning. Pesticides, herbicides, and household cleaning chemicals are

familiar toxins as well.

旧房屋油漆、废弃电池、溢出的石油产品或工业废物导致的铅中毒也是伴侣动物中毒的常见原因。杀虫

剂、除草剂和家用清洁化学品也是常见的毒素。

The mechanisms by which poisons act against the body are as varied as their chemistries. Lead-based poisons

cause brain damage, while pesticides, herbicides, and household chemicals may cause nervous system damage, liver

and kidney damage, internal bleeding, hypoxic blood disorders, or even cancer. Certain plants may cause poisoning

too, although animals are less likely to ingest them, and their effects are mostly limited to digestive upset,

photosensitive reactions, rashes, and in a few cases, internal bleeding. Food poisoning is usually limited to the

digestive tract and is generally corrected by vomiting.

毒物作用于人体的机制与其化学成分一样多种多样。铅类毒物会导致脑损伤，而杀虫剂、除草剂和家用

化学品可能会导致神经系统损伤、肝肾损伤、内出血、缺氧性血液疾病，甚至癌症。某些植物也可能引起

中毒，尽管动物摄入它们的可能性较小，而且它们的影响大多仅限于消化不良、光敏反应、皮疹，在少数

情况下还会导致内出血。食物中毒通常仅限于消化道，通常通过呕吐来纠正。

The chemical structure of a poison and the way it behaves in the body dictates the manner in which an animal is

treated. In some cases, vomiting is induced to expel the poison from the body as quickly as possible. But in other

instances, such as ingestion of petroleum products or acids, vomiting may further compound the problem by

allowing poison to enter the lungs or burn the esophagus on the way out. This makes a general approach to

poisoning impossible and illustrates why it’s critically important to identify the source of poisoning as quickly as

possible.

毒药的化学结构及其在体内的作用方式决定了对待动物的方式。在某些情况下，会诱导呕吐以尽快将毒

物排出体外。但在其他情况下，例如摄入石油产品或酸，呕吐可能会导致毒物进入肺部或在排出时烧伤食

道，从而进一步加剧问题。这使得不可能采用一般的中毒方法，并说明了为什么尽快识别中毒源至关重

要。

To prepare for the unforeseeable, keep some activated charcoal on hand. This is fed to a poisoned animal under

the direction of a veterinarian to help absorb many forms of poison as the animal is rushed to the veterinary hospital.

为了应对不可预见的情况，请准备一些活性炭。当动物被送往兽医医院时，在兽医的指导下将其喂给中

毒的动物，以帮助吸收多种形式的毒物。

If a poisoning does happen, don’t waste time with home treatment—get your companion to a veterinarian

immediately! If two or more humans are present, one should transport the animal, while the other(s) should confirm

the identity of the suspected poison and relay that information to the waiting veterinarian.

如果确实发生中毒，不要浪费时间进行家庭治疗——立即让你的同伴去看兽医！如果有两人或多人在

场，其中一人应运送动物，而其他人应确认可疑毒物的身份，并将该信息传递给等待的兽医。

=== PAGE 473 ===
Although many types of herbs such as violet root, elderberry, and aloe can be used to induce vomiting in certain

cases of poisoning, this action is not recommended unless you know the exact nature of the poison and the proper

course of action. Guessing can be fatal. Therefore, herbs are best reserved to support and help rejuvenate an animal’s

body after the crisis has passed.

虽然紫罗兰根、接骨木和芦荟等许多类型的草药可以在某些中毒病例中用于催吐，但不建议这样做，除

非您知道毒物的确切性质和正确的操作步骤。猜测可能是致命的。因此，在危机过后，最好保留草药来支

持和帮助动物的身体恢复活力。

To help repair the liver after a poisoning, milk thistle is strongly indicated. If the liver is inflamed, licorice may be

of benefit. Mild cholagogue, alterative, and diuretic herbs, such as dandelion (root and leaf), burdock, alfalfa, and

red clover, assist the body in efforts to eliminate residual toxins and their metabolic by-products. Yellow dock is

believed to help remove heavy metals from the body. Immunostimulant and antioxidant herbs such as echinacea and

garlic give the immune system a needed boost, while adaptogens such as astragalus or Siberian ginseng can help

improve the body’s overall responses to the added stress. If kidney damage is evident, marshmallow, corn silk,

ginkgo, hawthorn, horsetail, and couch grass are all candidates for use.

为了帮助中毒后修复肝脏，强烈建议使用水飞蓟。如果肝脏发炎，甘草可能会有帮助。温和的利胆药、

替代药和利尿药草，如蒲公英（根和叶）、牛蒡、苜蓿和红三叶草，有助于身体消除残留毒素及其代谢副

产物。黄坞被认为有助于清除体内的重金属。紫锥菊和大蒜等免疫刺激剂和抗氧化草药可以增强免疫系统

所需的功能，而黄芪或西伯利亚人参等适应原则可以帮助改善身体对额外压力的整体反应。如果肾脏损伤

明显，棉花糖、玉米须、银杏、山楂、马尾草和茅草都可以使用。

If you wish to learn more about poisonings or need help during an emergency, call the Animal Poison Control

Center at 1-888-426-4435. A consultation fee of $60 applies.

如果您想了解有关中毒的更多信息或在紧急情况下需要帮助，请致电动物中毒控制中心：1-888-426-

4435。需支付 60 美元的咨询费。

=== PAGE 474 ===
SHOCK

震惊

Shock occurs when the vascular system is unable to provide adequate blood supply to vital organs. Hemorrhagic

shock is caused when blood pressure and volume are reduced as a result of internal or external bleeding.

Cardiogenic shock occurs when heart disease or dysfunction causes a reduction of blood delivery to other organs.

Septic shock is caused when bacteria invade the heart muscle, other organs, or the blood itself and cause enough

injury to cells to interfere with their ability to utilize oxygen. All types of shock create a situation in which various

body tissues are deprived of oxygen that would normally be provided by the blood. Shock is therefore a life-

threatening situation that demands immediate and decisive first aid attention. Get to a vet! You must stop bleeding

and take measures to increase blood volume immediately. If the animal’s breathing is labored, try to position his

body in a way that appears to make breathing easier. If possible, try to keep the lower half of the animal’s body

slightly higher than the heart and head—this helps to keep blood volume at the brain, heart, and lungs.

当血管系统无法为重要器官提供足够的血液供应时，就会发生休克。失血性休克是由于内出血或外出血导

致血压和血容量降低而引起的。当心脏病或功能障碍导致其他器官的血液输送减少时，就会发生心源性休

克。当细菌侵入心肌、其他器官或血液本身并对细胞造成足够的损伤以干扰其利用氧气的能力时，就会引

起感染性休克。所有类型的休克都会造成各种身体组织失去通常由血液提供的氧气。因此，休克是一种危

及生命的情况，需要立即采取果断的急救措施。去看兽医！必须立即止血并采取措施增加血容量。如果动

物呼吸困难，请尝试将其身体摆在看起来更容易呼吸的位置。如果可能的话，尽量让动物的下半身略高于

心脏和头部——这有助于保持大脑、心脏和肺部的血容量。

While en route to the veterinarian, Rescue Remedy can be applied to the ears, paws, or lips of a conscious or

unconscious animal. TTouch, acupressure, and homeopathic remedies (Aconite and Arnica) may also prove helpful.

If you’ve been trained, be prepared to perform CPR in the event of cardiac arrest.

在去看兽医的途中，可以将救援药物涂抹在有意识或无意识的动物的耳朵、爪子或嘴唇上。触摸、穴位

按摩和顺势疗法（附子和山金车）也可能有帮助。如果您接受过培训，请准备好在心脏骤停时进行心肺复

苏。

After a shock crisis is over, cardiopulmonary function can be assisted with the use of cardiovascular tonics.

Hawthorn and ginkgo can be fed to strengthen the heart and increase blood circulation throughout the body. Yarrow

or cayenne can be used to increase blood circulation and oxygenation in the lungs. Nettle, spirulina, and alfalfa are

good nutritives for building healthy blood. Garlic feeds the blood and also has antioxidant, vascular tonic, and

immunotonic qualities.

休克危机结束后，可以使用心血管补品来辅助心肺功能。常食山楂、白果可强心、增加全身血液循环。

西洋蓍草或辣椒可用于增加肺部的血液循环和氧合。荨麻、螺旋藻和苜蓿是构建健康血液的良好营养物

质。大蒜可以滋养血液，还具有抗氧化、强血管和免疫功能。

=== PAGE 475 ===
TENDONITIS, SPRAINS, AND LIGAMENT INJURIES

肌腱炎、扭伤和韧带损伤

Injuries of fibrous tissues that connect muscle with bone can be extremely painful and slow to heal. Generally

speaking, the sooner herbal therapy starts, the faster the animal’s recovery will be.

连接肌肉和骨骼的纤维组织受伤可能会非常痛苦且愈合缓慢。一般来说，越早开始草药治疗，动物的恢复

速度就越快。

Arnica oil, salve, or poultice should be applied immediately after the injury occurs—this begins the healing

process by increasing capillary circulation and lymphatic infusion. However, Arnica should not be used on open

wounds. If Arnica is not available, yarrow, cayenne, or Saint-John’s-wort may prove beneficial, as will a poultice

compress of comfrey. Homeopathic Arnica, Ledum, Rhus toxicodendron, or Ruta (depending on symptoms) may be

effective first aid treatments as well.

受伤发生后应立即使用山金车油、药膏或膏剂——通过增加毛细血管循环和淋巴液灌注来开始愈合过

程。然而，山金车不应用于开放性伤口。如果没有山金车，西洋蓍草、辣椒或圣约翰草可能会有所帮助，

紫草敷料也可能有效。顺势疗法山金车、杜香、漆树或芸香（取决于症状）也可能是有效的急救疗法。

To continue the healing process, the animal’s diet can be supplemented with vitamin C and glucosamine sulfate or

chondroitin sulfate. These supplements play positive roles in the reconstruction of connective tissues. Feeding your

companion animal horsetail and comfrey can also aid in the reconstructive process. To help minimize pain and

inflammation, yucca, licorice, willow bark (but not for cats), devil’s claw, and boswellia are all choices to consider.

Yarrow and ginkgo can be fed to maintain good blood circulation in the affected extremity.

为了继续愈合过程，可以在动物的饮食中补充维生素 C 和硫酸氨基葡萄糖或硫酸软骨素。这些补充剂在

结缔组织的重建中发挥积极作用。给你的伴侣动物喂马尾草和紫草也有助于重建过程。为了帮助减轻疼痛

和炎症，丝兰、甘草、柳树皮（但不适用于猫）、魔爪草和乳香都是可以考虑的选择。可以喂西洋蓍草和

银杏，以维持患肢良好的血液循环。

=== PAGE 476 ===
IMMUNE SYSTEM CARE

免疫系统护理

To recognize and treat immune system disorders effectively, it’s important to have a general understanding of what

the immune system is and how it works. The immune system is composed of a complex assortment of various cells

and molecules, all of which are joined in an interdependent effort to maintain a balanced state of health. Each and

every organ, tissue, and cell of the body has an integral role in this effort—the liver and kidneys, for instance, are

responsible for filtering toxins and waste from the blood, and the skin serves as a first line of defense against

pathogenic microbes and other environmental threats. Working beneath or within the structures and functions of the

various organs and tissues of the body is a sophisticated army of frontline defenders—the millions of special cells,

molecules, and microbes we know specifically as the immune system. Each member of this elite army has a special

function—some members serve as sentries and detectives with the sole purpose of seeking out and identifying

harmful invaders or waste products, while others serve as responding attackers to kill and remove invading microbes

and other foreign substances.

为了有效地识别和治疗免疫系统疾病，重要的是要对免疫系统是什么及其工作原理有一个大致的了解。免

疫系统由各种复杂的细胞和分子组成，所有这些细胞和分子相互依存，共同维持健康的平衡状态。身体的

每一个器官、组织和细胞在这项工作中都发挥着不可或缺的作用——例如，肝脏和肾脏负责过滤血液中的

毒素和废物，而皮肤则是抵御细菌感染的第一道防线。病原微生物和其他环境威胁。在身体各个器官和组

织的结构和功能之下或内部工作的是一支复杂的前线防御军队——数以百万计的特殊细胞、分子和微生

物，我们称之为免疫系统。这支精锐军队的每个成员都有特殊的职能——一些成员充当哨兵和侦探，其唯

一目的是寻找和识别有害入侵者或废物，而另一些成员则充当响应攻击者，杀死和清除入侵的微生物和其

他外来物质。

Like any army, the immune system must quickly reach each battlefield, or site of infection, to be effective. To

allow a rapid response, the blood and lymphatic system serve as the army’s transport and incursion system. The

blood carries antibodies (specialized proteins that serve to detect and report any foreign presence to the army’s

soldiers), lymphocytes and monocytes (the first-response assault teams), and interleukins and various other

cytokines (messenger molecules that provide communication between other elements of the army), as well as

oxygen and nutrients that are necessary to feed tissues and wage a battle wherever the immune army is needed. To

clean up the aftermath of battle, the spleen filters the blood and serves as a fatal trap for foreign bodies that were not

killed by the body’s warriors.

像任何军队一样，免疫系统必须快速到达每个战场或感染地点才能发挥作用。为了实现快速反应，血液

和淋巴系统充当军队的运输和入侵系统。血液携带抗体（用于检测并向军队士兵报告任何异物存在的特殊

蛋白质）、淋巴细胞和单核细胞（第一反应突击队）以及白细胞介素和各种其他细胞因子（在身体其他成

分之间提供通讯的信使分子）。军队），以及为组织提供营养所需的氧气和营养物质，并在需要免疫军队

的地方发动战斗。为了清理战斗的余波，脾脏会过滤血液，并成为未被身体战士杀死的异物的致命陷阱。

The lymphatic system’s purpose is to cleanse and nourish cells and tissues and to carry the immune effort across

barriers that cannot be effectively reached by the blood. Lymphocytes are produced in the bone marrow, thymus

(hence the “T” in killer T cells), and throughout the body in various mucosal-associated lymphoid tissues. The

lymph (a clear, viscous fluid) then carries these warriors via an intricate network of tiny vessels on an endless

journey in and out of the bloodstream and the body’s various tissues. As the lymphocytes seek and destroy foreign

invaders, the lymph picks up their dead bodies and other debris. The waste is then filtered out and surviving invaders

are destroyed at lymph nodes that are strategically positioned throughout the body.

淋巴系统的目的是清洁和滋养细胞和组织，并携带免疫努力穿过血液无法有效到达的屏障。淋巴细胞在

骨髓、胸腺（因此是杀伤性 T 细胞中的“T”）以及全身各种粘膜相关淋巴组织中产生。然后，淋巴液（一种

透明的粘性液体）携带这些战士通过复杂的微小血管网络，在血液和身体的各种组织中进行无尽的进出之

旅。当淋巴细胞寻找并消灭外来入侵者时，淋巴液会拾起他们的尸体和其他碎片。然后废物被过滤掉，幸

存的入侵者在遍布全身的淋巴结处被消灭。

=== PAGE 477 ===
Autoimmune disease or dysfunction occurs when one or more elements of the immune system becomes deficient,

overwhelmed, or overactive. Holistic treatment of autoimmune diseases (such as lupus, arthritis, FIV, allergies, to

name a few) centers on assisting the body in its innate ability to establish and maintain balance and preparedness

within the immune system. The use of vaccines, antibiotics, and steroid drugs is contradictory to the holistic healing

effort because these substances are antagonistic to the body’s natural defense mechanisms. Such measures work by

suppressing, confusing, or bypassing natural immune functions, which amounts to an artificially induced state of

autoimmune deficiency.

当免疫系统的一种或多种要素变得不足、不堪重负或过度活跃时，就会发生自身免疫性疾病或功能障

碍。自身免疫性疾病（例如狼疮、关节炎、FIV、过敏等）的整体治疗重点是帮助身体发挥其固有能力，在

免疫系统内建立和维持平衡和准备。疫苗、抗生素和类固醇药物的使用与整体治疗工作相矛盾，因为这些

物质与人体的自然防御机制相反。这些措施通过抑制、混淆或绕过自然免疫功能发挥作用，这相当于人为

诱导的自身免疫缺陷状态。

Barring genetic predisposition, animals who are consistently well nourished and properly cared for have strong

immune systems throughout their long, healthy lives. On the other hand, animals who are subjected to

immunosuppressive drug therapies eventually develop some form of immune dysfunction—perhaps arthritis,

chronic seborrhea, allergies, or diminished resistance to certain strains of bacteria, fungi, or parasites.

除非有遗传倾向，持续得到良好营养和适当照顾的动物在其漫长、健康的一生中都具有强大的免疫系

统。另一方面，接受免疫抑制药物治疗的动物最终会出现某种形式的免疫功能障碍——可能是关节炎、慢

性皮脂溢、过敏或对某些细菌、真菌或寄生虫菌株的抵抗力减弱。

Stimulating the immune system with echinacea may be counter-productive to the healing process.

用紫锥菊刺激免疫系统可能会对愈合过程产生反作用。

Whether or not to vaccinate your companion involves heated arguments among animal care professionals on both

sides of the issue, as well as political, social, economic, and legal interests. At the root of all the confusion lies a

pressing question: Should well-informed animal guardians be allowed to decide what is best for their beloved

companion animals? We, of course, believe that owners should have that right. Although we cannot advise anyone

to break the law in areas where vaccinations are deemed mandatory, we are holistically opposed to vaccinating

animals.

是否给你的伴侣接种疫苗涉及动物护理专业人士双方的激烈争论，以及政治、社会、经济和法律利益。

=== PAGE 478 ===
所有困惑的根源在于一个紧迫的问题：是否应该允许消息灵通的动物监护人决定什么对他们心爱的伴侣动

物最好？当然，我们相信业主应该拥有这项权利。尽管我们不能建议任何人在强制接种疫苗的地区违法，

但我们完全反对给动物接种疫苗。

=== PAGE 479 ===
HERBS FOR IMMUNE SYSTEM SUPPORT

支持免疫系统的草药

Many of the diseases and problems discussed in this book are related to the immune system. A few diseases or

syndromes are recognized as being directly related to immunity and might be considered autoimmune diseases.

When most herb users think of immune system support, immunostimulant standbys such as echinacea immediately

come to mind. For many immune-related disorders, however, increased stimulation of immune system functions

represents only a small part of a complete herbal therapy, and in some cases, stimulation of immune activities may

actually be counterproductive in the healing effort. A good case in point is discoid lupus erythematosus (DLE), a

disease that occurs primarily in dogs and less commonly in cats. Discoid lupus erythematosus is a chronic

inflammatory condition of the skin (primarily that of the nose, lips, cheeks, and ears) that occurs as the result of a

failure in the regulating mechanisms of the immune system, specifically those that prevent the body from attacking

its own cells. In other words, the immune army works against the body it is supposed to protect. Animals with DLE

typically suffer from pyoderma, seborrhea, and other chronic conditions of the skin, as well as arthritis, kidney

problems, and other immune-mediated forms of disease. For obvious reasons, it would be inadvisable to further

stimulate the immune system with herbs such as echinacea. On the other hand, many herbs can act as immune

moderators, meaning that they help adjust the immune system into balance. Such herbs include astragalus, shiitake

and reishi mushrooms, garlic, and ginseng.

本书讨论的许多疾病和问题都与免疫系统有关。一些疾病或综合症被认为与免疫直接相关，可能被认为是

自身免疫性疾病。当大多数草药使用者想到免疫系统支持时，立即想到的是紫锥菊等免疫刺激备用品。然

而，对于许多与免疫相关的疾病，增加免疫系统功能的刺激仅代表完整草药疗法的一小部分，并且在某些

情况下，刺激免疫活动实际上可能会在治疗过程中起反作用。盘状红斑狼疮 (DLE) 就是一个很好的例子，

这种疾病主要发生在狗身上，猫身上较少见。盘状红斑狼疮是一种慢性皮肤炎症（主要是鼻子、嘴唇、脸

颊和耳朵），是由于免疫系统调节机制（特别是那些阻止身体攻击的调节机制）失败而发生的。它自己的

细胞。换句话说，免疫大军正在对抗它本应保护的身体。患有 DLE 的动物通常患有脓皮病、皮脂溢和其他

慢性皮肤病，以及关节炎、肾脏问题和其他免疫介导的疾病。出于显而易见的原因，不建议用紫锥菊等草

药进一步刺激免疫系统。另一方面，许多草药可以充当免疫调节剂，这意味着它们有助于调整免疫系统平

衡。这些草药包括黄芪、香菇、灵芝、大蒜和人参。

The immune system and its variable problems are complex, and no single herb serves as a panacea for immune

system dysfunction. Because a great deal of sensationalism has been placed on herbs that have been shown to

stimulate immune system functions, many people have been led to believe that an herb such as echinacea is always

the first thing to reach for to fight any problem that involves the immune system. Entrepreneurs have made such

claims a multimillion dollar affair, but the claims simply aren’t true.

免疫系统及其各种问题很复杂，没有一种草药可以作为治疗免疫系统功能障碍的灵丹妙药。由于人们对

那些已被证明可以刺激免疫系统功能的草药进行了大量的耸人听闻的宣传，许多人被引导相信，紫锥菊等

草药始终是解决任何涉及免疫系统问题的首选草药。系统。企业家们声称这种说法是一件耗资数百万美元

的事情，但这些说法根本不属实。

Contrary to what many herb product manufacturers might lead you to believe, immune system support does not

begin with stimulation. In fact, stimulation should be limited to activating a healthy immune system in times when

increased immune response is necessary to repel viral, bacterial, or fungal infection. In some cases of immune-

mediated disease, immunostimulants may ultimately do more harm than good. For instance, echinacea and Saint-

John’s-wort are capable of stimulating reproduction of killer T cells, the search-and-destroy soldiers whose numbers

are severely diminished in people or animals with AIDS. On the surface of the problem, stimulation of T cells may

sound like a good idea, but by stimulating their reproduction, we may also be aggravating and accelerating the

mechanisms that are causing their destruction. Therefore, the best course of action in immune-mediated problems is

to support the body in its efforts to reestablish and maintain healthy balance among all aspects of natural immunity.

与许多草药产品制造商可能会让您相信的相反，免疫系统支持并不是从刺激开始的。事实上，当需要增

强免疫反应来抵抗病毒、细菌或真菌感染时，刺激应仅限于激活健康的免疫系统。在某些免疫介导疾病的

情况下，免疫刺激剂最终可能弊大于利。例如，紫锥菊和圣约翰草能够刺激杀伤性 T 细胞的繁殖，杀伤性

T 细胞是一种搜索和消灭士兵，在患有艾滋病的人或动物中，其数量严重减少。从表面上看，刺激 T 细胞

=== PAGE 480 ===
可能听起来是个好主意，但通过刺激它们的繁殖，我们也可能会加剧和加速导致其破坏的机制。因此，解

决免疫介导问题的最佳做法是支持身体努力重建和维持自然免疫各方面的健康平衡。

If stimulating the immune system is indicated, several herbs are available that have immunostimulant qualities.

Some herbs, such as echinacea, have strong and specific immune-stimulating activities, making them especially

useful when the immune system needs a quick boost. Others, such as garlic, Siberian ginseng, astragalus, licorice,

shiitake and reishi mushrooms, and turmeric, offer immune-supportive qualities in addition to a wide spectrum of

tonic activities. For instance, astragalus, shiitake and reishi mushrooms, and Siberian ginseng are all adaptogens,

meaning that they help increase energy levels and improve the body’s ability to respond to stressful situations (such

as systemic disease, infection, or emotional trauma). Garlic offers strong antimicrobial, antioxidant, and hypotensive

activities in addition to being an immunostimulant device. Turmeric stimulates liver and digestive functions as part

of its immune-boosting agenda. Licorice and borage stimulate the adrenal glands and support and protect the liver,

making them useful in treating Addison’s disease (hypoadrenocorticism) or problems that stem from steroid drug

use or excessive X-ray exposure.

如果需要刺激免疫系统，可以使用几种具有免疫刺激特性的草药。一些草药，例如紫锥菊，具有强烈且

特定的免疫刺激活性，当免疫系统需要快速增强时，它们特别有用。其他的，如大蒜、西伯利亚人参、黄

芪、甘草、香菇、灵芝和姜黄，除了广泛的滋补作用外，还提供免疫支持特性。例如，黄芪、香菇、灵芝

和西伯利亚人参都是适应原，这意味着它们有助于提高能量水平并提高身体应对压力情况（例如全身性疾

病、感染或情感创伤）的能力。除了作为免疫刺激剂之外，大蒜还具有很强的抗菌、抗氧化和降血压活

性。姜黄可以刺激肝脏和消化功能，这是其增强免疫力的一部分。甘草和琉璃苣可刺激肾上腺并支持和保

护肝脏，使其可用于治疗阿狄森氏病（肾上腺皮质功能减退症）或因类固醇药物使用或过度 X 射线暴露引

起的问题。

In summary, before you pick up echinacea for immune system support, educate yourself. Find out more about

your companion animal’s condition and read up on echinacea and other herbs mentioned in this book as well as

other immune-supportive herbs. You will likely find an herb that is specifically suited to your companion’s needs.

总之，在您选择紫锥花来支持免疫系统之前，请先进行自我教育。详细了解您的伴侣动物的状况，并阅

读本书中提到的紫锥菊和其他草药以及其他免疫支持草药。您可能会找到一种特别适合您同伴需求的草

药。

=== PAGE 481 ===
ALLERGIES

过敏

Allergies occur when antigenic substances (allergens) enter the body and trigger a disproportionately aggressive

immune response. Conventional treatment usually involves the use of antihistamine and corticosteroid drugs. These

drugs suppress immune system functions so that the uncomfortable symptoms of allergy cannot occur. This action

alleviates the symptoms for a while but leaves their actual causes unaddressed. In fact, such drugs may compound

the underlying immune system dysfunction that is causing the problem in the first place.

当抗原物质（过敏原）进入体内并引发不成比例的攻击性免疫反应时，就会发生过敏。常规治疗通常涉及

使用抗组胺药和皮质类固醇药物。这些药物会抑制免疫系统功能，从而不会出现过敏引起的不适症状。这

种做法可以暂时缓解症状，但并未解决其真正原因。事实上，此类药物可能会加剧导致问题的潜在免疫系

统功能障碍。

Allergies are a symptom of an immune system disorder that may be related to a nutritional deficiency or excess,

steroid or antibiotic therapies, vaccinosis, or metabolic dysfunction. Therefore, the questions to ask in the holistic

treatment of allergies are threefold: (1) What substance is causing an immune response, (2) Why is the immune

system responding so disproportionately to the substance, and (3) What can be done to help correct this response?

过敏是免疫系统疾病的症状，可能与营养缺乏或过量、类固醇或抗生素治疗、疫苗接种或代谢功能障碍

有关。因此，在过敏的整体治疗中要问的问题有三个：（1）什么物质引起免疫反应，（2）为什么免疫系

统对该物质的反应如此不成比例，以及（3）可以采取什么措施帮助纠正这个反应？

Holistic treatment is focused on moderating immune responses and improving the body’s ability to process and

eliminate potential allergens. The effort begins with an intensive assessment of the animal’s diet, environment, and

health care history. As causative factors are identified and dealt with, herbal therapy begins with tonic support of

liver, digestive, lymphatic, and urinary functions that are responsible for filtering and eliminating problematic

substances from the body. This in turn supports and improves immune activities by helping to remove antigenic

substances and metabolic waste products that might be compounding the problem. At the core of this approach are

alterative, diuretic, and cholagogue herbs. Burdock, red clover, dandelion root, spirulina, and alfalfa are all worthy

candidates for improving liver efficiency and building strong, healthy blood. The oils or stabilized powders of

flaxseed, borage seed, black currant seed, and evening primrose seed contain EFAs that play important roles in

immune system development and health. Dandelion leaf serves especially well as an effective diuretic agent to aid in

the elimination of waste products that are carried out of the body via the urine. Nettle is an excellent tonic for

animals who suffer from seasonal allergies, as it lends mild antihistamine relief in addition to strong diuretic and

blood-nourishing qualities. The Basic Support Formula under “Skin Problems” is useful for all of these purposes.

整体治疗的重点是调节免疫反应并提高身体处理和消除潜在过敏原的能力。这项工作首先对动物的饮

食、环境和医疗保健历史进行深入评估。在识别和处理致病因素后，草药疗法从对肝脏、消化、淋巴和泌

尿功能的滋补支持开始，这些功能负责过滤和消除体内有问题的物质。这反过来又通过帮助去除可能使问

题复杂化的抗原物质和代谢废物来支持和改善免疫活动。这种方法的核心是替代、利尿和利胆的草药。牛

蒡、红三叶草、蒲公英根、螺旋藻和苜蓿都是提高肝脏效率和建立强壮、健康血液的候选药物。亚麻籽、

琉璃苣籽、黑醋栗籽和月见草籽的油或稳定粉末含有必需脂肪酸，在免疫系统发育和健康中发挥着重要作

用。蒲公英叶是一种特别有效的利尿剂，有助于消除通过尿液排出体外的废物。对于患有季节性过敏的动

物来说，荨麻是一种极好的滋补品，因为它除了具有强利尿和滋养血液的功效外，还能温和地缓解组胺症

状。 “皮肤问题”下的基本支持公式对于所有这些目的都很有用。

Uncomfortable symptoms of allergy can be approached according to the systems involved. In severe cases in

which identification of causative factors proves to be a lengthy process, licorice can be used as a less-obtrusive

alternative to steroid drugs. The Systemic Detoxifying Formula under “Skin Problems” may be effective. It’s

important to remember, however, that symptomatic suppression does not amount to a cure. Don’t be fooled into

action by the joy of seeing your companion feel better—keep looking for answers until a long-term holistic solution

is found.

过敏的不适症状可以根据所涉及的系统来处理。在严重的情况下，确定致病因素被证明是一个漫长的过

程，甘草可以用作类固醇药物的一种不太引人注目的替代品。 “皮肤问题”下的全身排毒方可能有效。然

=== PAGE 482 ===
而，重要的是要记住，症状抑制并不等于治愈。不要因为看到伴侣感觉好转而感到高兴而采取行动——继

续寻找答案，直到找到长期的整体解决方案。

ANTIMICROBIAL NOSE DROPS

抗菌滴鼻剂

Calendula tincture 5

金盏花酊剂 5

Oregon grape tincture 5

俄勒冈葡萄酊剂 5

Usnea lichen tincture 5

松萝地衣酊剂 5

2 oz sterile saline

2 盎司无菌生理盐水

Combine 10 drops of each of the alcohol tinctures with the sterile saline.

将每种酒精酊剂 10 滴与无菌盐水混合。

To use for sinusitis, drop or spray the above solution into each nostril, preferably with the animal’s head

tilted slightly skyward. Expect resistance and sneezing during administration—your companion probably

won’t like this. Adverse reactions are rare with this formula, but before administering a full dose, check for

hypersensitivity by placing a small drop onto the rim of one nostril. If your companion starts sneezing and

doesn’t stop within a few minutes, he may be sensitive to one or more of these herbs or the alcohol, so don’t

use the drops.

用于治疗鼻窦炎时，将上述溶液滴入或喷洒到每个鼻孔中，最好将动物的头部稍微向天空倾斜。预

计给药期间会出现阻力和打喷嚏——您的同伴可能不喜欢这样。该配方的不良反应很少见，但在服

用全剂量之前，请在一个鼻孔边缘滴一小滴来检查是否有过敏反应。如果您的同伴开始打喷嚏并且

在几分钟内没有停止，他可能对这些草药中的一种或多种或酒精敏感，所以不要使用滴剂。

A drop or two per nostril twice daily is a sufficient dose for cats and similar-sized animals. Dogs need 4–6

drops per nostril (or a short squirt of the sprayer). Horses and other large animals require 10–20 drops per

nostril.

对于猫和类似体型的动物来说，每天两次，每个鼻孔滴一两滴就足够了。狗每个鼻孔需要 4-6 滴

（或用喷雾器短喷）。马和其他大型动物每个鼻孔需要 10-20 滴。

Because an allergy equates to an overactive immune system, immunostimulant herbs (such as echinacea) may be

contraindicated. Adaptogenic herbs, those herbs that improve or support the body’s response to stressful

circumstances such as Siberian ginseng or astragalus may be helpful in re-establishing and maintaining immune

system balances in animals who suffer allergies.

因为过敏相当于免疫系统过度活跃，所以可能禁止使用免疫刺激草药（如紫锥菊）。适应性草药，那些

改善或支持身体对压力环境的反应的草药，如西伯利亚人参或黄芪，可能有助于重建和维持过敏动物的免

疫系统平衡。

=== PAGE 483 ===
MOUTH AND NOSE PROBLEMS

口腔和鼻子问题

MOUTH PROBLEMS

口腔问题

Some animals have problems with their teeth and gums throughout their lives. Others seem to be lucky or in such

good health that their gums and teeth remain healthy for life. A healthy, natural, raw food diet is paramount to

healthy gums and teeth. For dogs and cats, this means raw, meaty bones and a diversity of enzyme- and nutrient-rich

fresh vegetables. Many herbivores have needs that go beyond simple dietary cleansing and nutrition—their teeth

need to be continuously worn down by the foods they eat to prevent the teeth from becoming too long and to remove

weak and decaying outer layers of enamel. Fresh, whole, fibrous vegetables and grains are an absolute necessity for

this process.

有些动物的牙齿和牙龈一生都会出现问题。其他人似乎很幸运或健康状况良好，他们的牙龈和牙齿终生保

持健康。健康、天然、生食饮食对于健康的牙龈和牙齿至关重要。对于狗和猫来说，这意味着生的肉骨头

和各种富含酶和营养的新鲜蔬菜。许多食草动物的需求不仅仅是简单的饮食清洁和营养——它们的牙齿需

要被所吃的食物不断磨损，以防止牙齿变得太长，并去除脆弱和腐烂的牙釉质外层。新鲜、完整、纤维状

的蔬菜和谷物是这个过程的绝对必要条件。

Most mouth problems are easily taken care of at home with a few simple herbal preparations. But if your animal

is having difficulty chewing and eating or is pawing at his mouth, he may have a minor tooth or gum infection that

can progress into a serious condition if not addressed. In cases of gingivitis, bacteria can eventually infect the

kidneys, causing irreversible damage to these vital organs. If your herbal efforts fail to remedy your companion’s

bad breath or oral discomfort or if the animal’s gums are severely inflamed, bleeding, or discharging pus, get to a

veterinarian immediately. A red gum line (along the base of an animal’s teeth) may also be indicative of a serious

underlying problem that demands professional attention.

大多数口腔问题都可以在家中通过一些简单的草药制剂轻松解决。但如果你的动物咀嚼和进食有困难，

或者用爪子抓着嘴，他可能有轻微的牙齿或牙龈感染，如果不及时治疗，可能会发展成严重的病症。在牙

龈炎的情况下，细菌最终会感染肾脏，对这些重要器官造成不可逆转的损害。如果你的草药努力无法治愈

你同伴的口臭或口腔不适，或者动物的牙龈严重发炎、出血或流脓，请立即去看兽医。红色牙龈线（沿着

动物牙齿的基部）也可能表明存在严重的潜在问题，需要专业人士的关注。

Gingivitis and Infections of the Mouth

牙龈炎和口腔感染

Gingivitis is an inflammation of the gums that is usually caused by bacterial infection. Symptoms may include bad

breath; reddened, swollen, and sometimes ulcerated gums; and pain and difficulty while eating. Gingivitis rarely

occurs in healthy animals who receive a balanced, raw food diet. It’s therefore important to make sure your

companion receives the vitamins, minerals, enzymes, and probiotics he needs to maintain a strong immune system

and good oral health. For dogs and cats, nothing compares with raw, meaty bones for maintaining healthy teeth and

gums.

牙龈炎是牙龈的炎症，通常由细菌感染引起。症状可能包括口臭；牙龈发红、肿胀，有时甚至溃疡；以及

进食时的疼痛和困难。牙龈炎很少发生在接受均衡生食饮食的健康动物身上。因此，确保您的伴侣获得维

持强大的免疫系统和良好的口腔健康所需的维生素、矿物质、酶和益生菌非常重要。对于狗和猫来说，没

有什么比生肉骨头更能保持牙齿和牙龈健康了。

=== PAGE 484 ===
Other causes of oral infection include puncture wounds from fights or rambunctious play (puppy and kitten teeth

make for dangerous jaw wrestling), abrasions or lacerations from chewing on nonfood items, wood splinters, and

dental cavities.

口腔感染的其他原因包括打架或吵闹造成的刺伤（小狗和小猫的牙齿会造成危险的下颌摔跤）、咀嚼非

食物物品造成的擦伤或撕裂、木碎片和蛀牙。

Dietary supplementation of CoQ10, vitamin C, and a variety of antimicrobial herbs may prove useful for reducing

infection and activating the healing process in the mouth. Echinacea provides a needed boost to the immune system.

To inhibit bacteria or fungi directly, a tincture of certified organic goldenseal, Oregon grape, thyme, sage, rosemary,

or better yet, myrrh, can be liberally applied directly to the animal’s gums (or any other site of oral infection) with a

cotton swab. If the animal is less than cooperative, a turkey-basting syringe can be used to rinse the animal’s mouth

—put 20 drops of tincture in 2 ounces of water or give 2 ounces of tea for each 20 pounds of the animal’s weight,

two to three times daily. To freshen bad breath, parsley leaf can be fed as a tincture, as a cooled tea, or in its whole

form. If bad breath is not a problem, dietary supplementation of garlic can also be helpful. Propolis is also excellent

for infected gums or mouth ulcers.

膳食补充 CoQ 10 、维生素 C 和各种抗菌草药可能有助于减少感染和激活口腔愈合过程。紫锥菊为免疫系

统提供所需的增强作用。为了直接抑制细菌或真菌，可以用棉花将经过认证的有机金印、俄勒冈葡萄、百

里香、鼠尾草、迷迭香或更好的没药酊剂直接涂抹在动物的牙龈（或任何其他口腔感染部位）上。拭子。

如果动物不配合，可以使用火鸡涂抹注射器冲洗动物的口腔——将 20 滴酊剂放入 2 盎司水中，或者每 20

磅动物体重喝 2 盎司茶，每次 2 至 3 次。每天几次。为了清新口臭，欧芹叶可以作为酊剂、冷茶或整个形

式服用。如果口臭不是问题，膳食中补充大蒜也会有帮助。蜂胶对于牙龈感染或口腔溃疡也非常有效。

=== PAGE 485 ===
NOSE AND SINUS PROBLEMS

鼻子和鼻窦问题

Nose and sinus problems are usually due to environmental influences such as bites, stings, allergens, microbial

infection, or litter box dust (a major cause of sinus problems in cats). Provided the problem is isolated to the nose

and nasal passages and is related to foreign substances, not a tumor or other metabolic disorder, nose and sinus

problems can be treated effectively with simple herbal preparations. If the problem is secondary to other disorders,

the therapeutic approach varies according to the nature of onset. For instance, sinusitis secondary to seasonal

allergies is best approached with dietary adjustment and herbs that support the various systems involved.

Inflammation secondary to an insect sting requires topical (astringent) applications to help relieve uncomfortable

symptoms and immunotonic and lymphatic herbs such as echinacea and calendula to support the metabolic

processes of removing foreign substances from involved tissues.

鼻子和鼻窦问题通常是由于环境影响造成的，例如咬伤、蜇伤、过敏原、微生物感染或猫砂盆灰尘（猫鼻

窦问题的主要原因）。如果问题仅限于鼻子和鼻道，并且与异物有关，而不是肿瘤或其他代谢紊乱，则可

以通过简单的草药制剂有效治疗鼻子和鼻窦问题。如果问题继发于其他疾病，则治疗方法会根据发病的性

质而有所不同。例如，季节性过敏继发的鼻窦炎最好通过饮食调整和支持各个系统的草药来治疗。昆虫叮

咬继发的炎症需要局部（收敛）应用来帮助缓解不适症状，并使用免疫补剂和淋巴草药（如紫锥菊和金盏

花）来支持从相关组织中清除异物的代谢过程。

Swab antimicrobial herbal tinctures directly on your dog’s gums to treat oral infections.

将抗菌草药酊剂直接涂抹在狗的牙龈上以治疗口腔感染。

Sometimes, abnormal nasal discharge, inflammation, sneezing, or other symptoms may be difficult to link to a

cause. In these cases, the diagnostic capabilities and holistic insights of an experienced veterinarian should not be

overlooked. If a problem is found to stem from deeper health issues, holistic treatment must begin at those issues

and not with the nasal symptoms. This is important: Don’t assume anything. Identify the cause of disease before

beginning any herbal treatment. If you don’t, you may be neglecting your companion’s real needs.

有时，异常的鼻分泌物、炎症、打喷嚏或其他症状可能很难与病因联系起来。在这些情况下，经验丰富

的兽医的诊断能力和整体洞察力不应被忽视。如果发现问题源于更深层次的健康问题，则必须从这些问题

开始进行整体治疗，而不是从鼻部症状开始。这很重要：不要假设任何事情。在开始任何草药治疗之前先

确定病因。如果你不这样做，你可能会忽视同伴的真正需求。

For bacterial or fungal infections of the nostrils, sinuses, or outer tissues of the nose, a saline-based preparation of

calendula, Oregon grape, and usnea lichen can be effective against a broad spectrum of bacteria and fungi.

Externally, this preparation can be liberally applied to all affected areas. For infections inside the nose and sinuses, it

can be administered with a dropper or as a nasal spray (empty bottles for nasal spray are available from pharmacies).

对于鼻孔、鼻窦或鼻子外部组织的细菌或真菌感染，金盏花、俄勒冈葡萄和松萝地衣的盐水制剂可以有

=== PAGE 486 ===
效对抗多种细菌和真菌。在外部，该制剂可以广泛应用于所有受影响的区域。对于鼻子和鼻窦内的感染，

可以用滴管或鼻喷雾剂给药（药店有售鼻喷雾剂空瓶）。

=== PAGE 487 ===
PARASITE-RELATED PROBLEMS: HOW TO LIVE WITH FLEAS,

WORMS, MITES, AND OTHER THINGS THAT SUCK

寄生虫相关问题：如何与跳蚤、蠕虫、螨虫和其他讨厌的东西共存

If you’re like most people who share their homes with companion animals, there’s a good chance that this is the first

part of the book you’ve turned to. Parasites are the most common source of torment and frustration shared by

animals and their human guardians. From an animal’s perspective, fleas, mites, and other bloodsucking freeloaders

are often the causes of sustained torture and misery. To an animal guardian, parasites are evil, disgusting, and

invasive. Creatures that latch onto flesh and suck the life fluids from their hosts have earned top billing in our

nightmares.

如果您像大多数与伴侣动物同住的人一样，那么这很可能是您翻阅本书的第一部分。寄生虫是动物及其人

类守护者共同遭受折磨和沮丧的最常见来源。从动物的角度来看，跳蚤、螨虫和其他吸血的贪图便宜的动

物往往是造成持续折磨和痛苦的原因。对于动物守护者来说，寄生虫是邪恶的、恶心的、具有侵略性的。

那些附着在肉上并从宿主身上吸取生命液的生物在我们的噩梦中名列前茅。

Unfortunately, while we struggle with our hate for such creatures by engaging in a relentless and futile battle to

wipe parasites from the face of the planet, we often overlook the deeper reasons they cause so much misery to our

animals. After all, tapeworms, fleas, ticks, mites, and other sucking insects have coexisted with animals for millions

of years, which implies that there must be natural provisions to allow for a more harmonious coexistence. How did

animals cope before humanity developed poisons and vaccines to reduce parasite populations? Did all animals suffer

from chronic problems such as flea allergies, digestive dysfunction, or heart disease because they were infested with

too many parasites? Of course not. Then why do some animals nowadays live their entire lives virtually undisturbed

by parasites, while others with the same level of exposure are constantly tormented by them? To find the answers to

such questions, we need to step away from our antiparasitic obsessions long enough to consider the life of a parasite.

不幸的是，当我们与对这些生物的仇恨作斗争时，我们进行了一场无情而徒劳的战斗，将寄生虫从地球

表面消灭，但我们常常忽视了它们给我们的动物带来如此多痛苦的更深层次原因。毕竟，绦虫、跳蚤、蜱

虫、螨虫和其他吸吮昆虫已经与动物共存了数百万年，这意味着必须有自然条件才能实现更和谐的共存。

在人类发明毒药和疫苗来减少寄生虫数量之前，动物是如何应对的？是否所有动物都因为感染过多寄生虫

而患有跳蚤过敏、消化功能障碍或心脏病等慢性问题？当然不是。那么，为什么现在有些动物一生几乎没

有受到寄生虫的干扰，而其他接触寄生虫程度相同的动物却不断受到寄生虫的折磨呢？为了找到这些问题

的答案，我们需要足够长的时间摆脱对寄生虫的痴迷，以考虑寄生虫的生命。

=== PAGE 488 ===
HOLISTIC APPROACHES

整体方法

Parasites, as repulsive as the fact may be, exist inside and on top of every living thing on earth. They even live on

each other. In fact, a body (human or otherwise) is home for a teeming biocommunity of millions of interdependent

life-forms, many of which happen to be parasites. From a holistic perspective, parasite-related health problems

emanate not from the mere presence of these vampires but from the host’s inability to deal with them effectively.

Some animals may test positive for Dirofilaria immitis (heartworm) but never suffer ill health. On the other hand,

some animals who appear to be healthy cannot tolerate a single fleabite without getting sick.

尽管事实可能令人厌恶，但寄生虫存在于地球上每一种生物的内部和顶部。他们甚至互相依赖而生活。事

实上，身体（人类或其他）是数以百万计相互依存的生命形式组成的丰富生物群落的家园，其中许多恰好

是寄生虫。从整体角度来看，与寄生虫相关的健康问题不仅仅源于这些吸血鬼的存在，而是源于宿主无法

有效应对它们。有些动物可能检测出恶丝虫（恶丝虫）呈阳性，但从未出现健康问题。另一方面，一些看

似健康的动物不能忍受一次跳蚤而不生病。

Parasites are opportunity seekers that exploit the weaknesses of their host. Their goal in doing so is to reproduce

and take control of their environment. If the host is malnourished and poorly equipped to keep parasite populations

in check, the parasites will take advantage of the body’s inadequate defenses and begin reproducing, eating, and

creating waste faster than the body can clean and replenish itself. If the immune system is dysfunctional and

responds too aggressively to the parasites, an “allergic response” occurs.

寄生虫是利用宿主弱点的机会寻求者。他们这样做的目的是繁殖并控制他们的环境。如果宿主营养不

良，且控制寄生虫数量的能力较差，寄生虫就会利用人体防御能力不足的优势，开始繁殖、进食和产生废

物，其速度快于人体自身清理和补充的速度。如果免疫系统功能失调并且对寄生虫的反应过于激烈，就会

发生“过敏反应”。

The most effective and holistic approach to parasite infection is to keep your animal well nourished and healthy.

An animal with a strong, properly functioning immune system presents an inhospitable living environment for

parasites and is less likely to suffer from parasite-related allergies. But there’s still an important question to be asked

before the holistic picture is complete: What happens to this scenario when we give in to our hatred and fear of

parasites and opt to use preventive drug measures in our pets? Any answer to this question is likely to raise

controversy. Antiparasitic drugs represent a multibillion-dollar industry in the U.S., and many veterinarians support

manufacturers’ claims that modern dewormers, skin-absorbed flea control agents, and other internal measures are

effective and generally safe. On the other side of the issue, though, holistic practitioners and naturally oriented

animal guardians are concerned about the serious long-term effects associated with such drugs. Of course, we’re

among those on this side of the issue, and here’s why.

对付寄生虫感染最有效、最全面的方法是让您的动物保持良好的营养和健康。具有强大且功能正常的免

疫系统的动物为寄生虫提供了一个不适宜生存的环境，并且不太可能患有与寄生虫相关的过敏。但在全面

了解之前，仍然有一个重要的问题需要问：当我们屈服于对寄生虫的仇恨和恐惧并选择对宠物使用预防性

药物措施时，这种情况会发生什么？这个问题的任何答案都可能引起争议。抗寄生虫药在美国是一个价值

数十亿美元的产业，许多兽医支持制造商的说法，即现代驱虫剂、皮肤吸收的跳蚤控制剂和其他内部措施

是有效且总体安全的。然而，在问题的另一方面，整体实践者和自然导向的动物监护人担心与此类药物相

关的严重的长期影响。当然，我们是站在这个问题这一边的人之一，原因如下。

To start with, anything that can poison a parasite cannot be good for the host. From a holistic standpoint, anything

that bypasses or interferes with natural body functions is likely to create its own state of imbalance in the body. For

instance, chemical wormers (aside from being potentially toxic to animals) are not 100 percent selective in what they

kill, meaning that beneficial microbes, such as those that play important roles in digestion and nutrient absorption,

might be compromised. In addition to this possibility, most antiparasitic agents come with their own long lists of

potential side effects, including seizures, liver failure, or even death. Ivermectin, a drug commonly used to treat and

prevent heartworm infection, may not only cause central nervous system depression but also act as an

immunosuppressant. That is, while it works to kill heartworms it also makes the body more vulnerable to countless

other diseases.

=== PAGE 489 ===
首先，任何能够毒害寄生虫的东西都不会对宿主有好处。从整体的角度来看，任何绕过或干扰自然身体

功能的事物都可能造成身体自身的不平衡状态。例如，化学驱虫剂（除了对动物具有潜在毒性外）并不是

100% 选择性杀死的微生物，这意味着有益微生物，例如那些在消化和营养吸收中发挥重要作用的微生物，

可能会受到损害。除了这种可能性之外，大多数抗寄生虫药物都有一长串潜在的副作用，包括癫痫、肝功

能衰竭，甚至死亡。伊维菌素是一种常用于治疗和预防心丝虫感染的药物，它不仅可能导致中枢神经系统

抑制，而且还可以起到免疫抑制剂的作用。也就是说，虽然它可以杀死心丝虫，但它也使身体更容易受到

无数其他疾病的影响。

The holistic herbalist does not see parasites as a cause of disease but as symptoms of a deeper imbalance.

Parasites themselves are viewed as what they really are—tough, adaptable, ancient life-forms that will likely inhabit

the earth long after humankind is gone. They are part of nature. Therefore, effective natural solutions to parasite-

related disorders are not found through fervent and dangerous attempts to destroy them but from learning to coexist

with them.

整体草药医生并不将寄生虫视为疾病的原因，而是将其视为更深层次不平衡的症状。寄生虫本身被认为

是它们真正的样子——坚韧、适应性强、古老的生命形式，在人类消失很久之后，它们很可能会居住在地

球上。它们是大自然的一部分。因此，针对寄生虫相关疾病的有效自然解决方案不是通过热情而危险的消

灭它们的尝试找到的，而是通过学习与它们共存来找到的。

In our minds (and remember, we’re herbalists, not veterinarians), stopping a symptom with chemicals that can

harm the patient does not constitute preventive or curative medicine—it only represents a dangerous, short-term

intervention that may actually compound the animal’s health problems. Indeed, some forms of parasitic infection

can be serious, even life threatening. The benefits of antiparasitic drugs are their convenience and their effectiveness

at bringing symptomatic relief to an animal who is already suffering. But what are the potential costs to the animal?

To find answers, check the back label or product information sheet for a list of side effects of the next antiparasitic

drug you consider for your companion. Regardless of the danger issues, you owe your animal the opportunity to stay

healthy and naturally free from parasite-related problems. This, of course, is what holistic animal care is all about.

在我们看来（请记住，我们是草药师，而不是兽医），用可能伤害患者的化学物质来阻止症状并不构成

预防或治疗药物，它只代表一种危险的短期干预措施，实际上可能会加剧动物的症状。健康问题。事实

上，某些形式的寄生虫感染可能很严重，甚至危及生命。抗寄生虫药物的好处在于它们的便利性以及它们

能够有效地缓解已经遭受痛苦的动物的症状。但动物的潜在成本是多少？要找到答案，请检查背面标签或

产品信息表，了解您考虑用于伴侣的下一种抗寄生虫药物的副作用列表。无论存在什么危险问题，您都应

该让您的动物有机会保持健康，自然地免受寄生虫相关问题的困扰。当然，这就是整体动物护理的全部内

容。

=== PAGE 490 ===
NUTRITION AND OTHER PREVENTION CONSIDERATIONS

营养和其他预防考虑因素

As we’ve stated before, the most effective treatment and prevention for all problems related to parasites is to make

sure your companion gets the nutrition he needs. Without a complete natural diet, your animal’s resistance and

ability to adjust to parasites is greatly diminished. Equally important is the need to identify and correct any element

of diet, environment, or activity that may be causing added stress on one or more body systems. If, for instance, your

dog has an allergy to the wheat he receives in his daily meals, his immune system will already be compromised

when new parasites enter his body. Likewise, if he has undergone long-term drug therapies, his immune system may

be in a depressed state and his defenses may be low. Remember that parasites are opportunity seekers.

正如我们之前所说，对于所有与寄生虫相关的问题，最有效的治疗和预防是确保您的伴侣获得他所需的营

养。如果没有完整的天然饮食，动物的抵抗力和适应寄生虫的能力就会大大降低。同样重要的是需要识别

和纠正可能对一个或多个身体系统造成额外压力的饮食、环境或活动的任何因素。例如，如果你的狗对日

常膳食中的小麦过敏，那么当新的寄生虫进入他的身体时，他的免疫系统就已经受到损害。同样，如果他

接受了长期的药物治疗，他的免疫系统可能会处于低迷状态，他的防御能力可能会很低。请记住，寄生虫

是机会寻求者。

Digestive enzymes and probiotic bacteria supplements can be of help in maintaining a healthy balance between

potentially harmful “digestive bugs,” and those that lead the preventive fights for good health. A full array of

vitamins and minerals is necessary to keep the blood healthy and the immune system operating at its peak potential.

Omega-3 and omega-6 EFAs, along with the proper balance of antioxidant vitamins (especially C, A, and E) and

minerals, are necessary for healthy, resilient skin that offers less opportunity for enterprising mites, fleas, and

parasitic fungi. In addition to vitamin C’s roles as an essential nutrient and antioxidant, it has been shown to lend

allergy relief through the antihistamine qualities it possesses. Exercise is also important, as is a clean environment.

The harder you work at helping your animal stay healthy, the less time and money you’ll spend on treating parasite-

related problems after the fact. As is the case in all forms of medicine, prevention truly is the cure.

消化酶和益生菌补充剂有助于在潜在有害的“消化细菌”和那些导致健康的预防性斗争之间保持健康平

衡。全面的维生素和矿物质对于保持血液健康和免疫系统发挥最大潜力是必需的。 Omega-3 和 omega-6 必

需脂肪酸以及抗氧化维生素（尤其是 C、A 和 E）和矿物质的适当平衡对于健康、有弹性的皮肤是必要的，

这样可以减少螨虫、跳蚤和寄生真菌的滋生机会。维生素 C 除了作为必需营养素和抗氧化剂的作用外，它

还被证明可以通过其抗组胺特性缓解过敏。锻炼也很重要，清洁的环境也很重要。您越努力帮助您的动物

保持健康，您在事后治疗与寄生虫相关的问题上花费的时间和金钱就越少。正如所有形式的医学一样，预

防确实是治疗的方法。

=== PAGE 491 ===
FLEAS

跳蚤

Animals who are hypersensitive to fleas may suffer a severe reaction from a single bite—so severe that they pull

their hair out and chew bloody patches from their skin. Conventional approaches to flea-contact dermatitis typically

start with medicated shampoos, flea control devices, and corticoid ointments and then lead to internal corticosteroid

drug therapies if conditions worsen. Anyone who has watched a companion suffer from a flea allergy knows how

easy it is to look past the dangers of prednisolone. The problem is, prednisolone and other corticosteroid drugs don’t

just suppress uncomfortable symptoms but they also suppress the immune system. Add to this the possible long-term

side effects of water retention, hypertension, liver damage, thyroid dysfunction, obesity, and heart attack, and

suddenly the corticosteroid option doesn’t sound so kind.

对跳蚤过敏的动物可能会因为被跳蚤咬一口而产生严重反应，严重到它们会拔掉毛发并咀嚼皮肤上的血

斑。治疗跳蚤接触性皮炎的传统方法通常是从含药洗发水、跳蚤控制装置和皮质类固醇软膏开始，如果情

况恶化，则进行内部皮质类固醇药物治疗。任何目睹过同伴患有跳蚤过敏的人都知道，忽视泼尼松龙的危

险是多么容易。问题是，泼尼松龙和其他皮质类固醇药物不仅能抑制不适症状，还能抑制免疫系统。再加

上水潴留、高血压、肝损伤、甲状腺功能障碍、肥胖和心脏病等可能的长期副作用，皮质类固醇的选择突

然听起来就不那么友好了。

To approach the flea dilemma from a holistic standpoint means to embrace a perspective that includes the animal

as a whole body in crisis. We must ask ourselves why fleas are bothering our animals in the first place rather than

focus solely on their elimination. Effective flea control starts inside your pet and in his living environment. Holistic

therapy does not begin with shampoos, coat dips, rinses, or sprays; it begins by strengthening the host and by

making your animal’s living quarters less hospitable to fleas. It’s important to remember that flea problems are

always secondary to something else, and it’s that “something else” that makes your companion an attractive “bed

and breakfast” for fleas. Healthy animals with healthy coats and properly functioning immune defenses generally

don’t have many fleas. And even if healthy animals do pick up a few fleas, their systems are able to handle the bites

without the excessive histamine responses that cause all of the itching.

从整体的角度来处理跳蚤的困境意味着要接受一种将处于危机中的动物作为一个整体的观点。我们必须

问自己，为什么跳蚤首先困扰我们的动物，而不是仅仅专注于消灭跳蚤。有效的跳蚤控制始于您的宠物体

内及其生活环境。整体治疗不是从洗发水、浸泡、冲洗或喷雾开始；首先要加强宿主的力量，让动物的居

住环境不那么适合跳蚤。重要的是要记住，跳蚤问题总是次要的，而正是这种“其他东西”使你的伴侣成为

跳蚤有吸引力的“床和早餐”。具有健康皮毛和正常免疫防御功能的健康动物通常不会有很多跳蚤。即使健

康的动物确实沾染了一些跳蚤，它们的系统也能够处理叮咬，而不会产生导致瘙痒的过度组胺反应。

To help your healthy animal deal with parasites comfortably, feed him small amounts of garlic as a supplement to

a proper diet. Contrary to what many believe, though, garlic should not be fed in quantities that cause that garlic

odor to exude from the animal’s skin. This is not only a waste of garlic but potentially harmful to your animal.

为了帮助您的健康动物轻松应对寄生虫，请喂食少量大蒜作为适当饮食的补充。然而，与许多人的看法

相反，大蒜的喂食量不应导致动物皮肤散发大蒜气味。这不仅浪费大蒜，而且可能对您的动物有害。

Dietary supplementation with brewer’s yeast and vitamin B complex have been popular for years as antiflea

measures, the theory being that these supplements adjust body chemistry in a way that makes the animal less

appealing to fleas. The effectiveness of such measures is questionable, and many animals are allergic to brewer’s

yeast (especially if it is low grade), but nevertheless, these supplements are worth a try.

多年来，作为抗跳蚤措施，添加啤酒酵母和复合维生素 B 的膳食补充剂一直很受欢迎，其理论是这些补

充剂可以调整身体化学成分，从而降低动物对跳蚤的吸引力。这些措施的有效性值得怀疑，而且许多动物

对啤酒酵母过敏（尤其是低等级啤酒酵母），但尽管如此，这些补充剂还是值得一试。

If your animal has an autoimmune deficiency, immunostimulants such as echinacea, Saint-John’s-wort, or

astragalus may be of help. However, immunostimulants should be used with caution or may be contraindicated in

animals with severe allergies or other diseases that are associated with an overactive immune system or with

immune functions that are working against the body (such as lupus and FIV).

=== PAGE 492 ===
如果您的动物患有自身免疫缺陷，紫锥菊、圣约翰草或黄芪等免疫刺激剂可能会有所帮助。然而，对于

患有严重过敏或与免疫系统过度活跃或免疫功能对身体不利（例如狼疮和 FIV）相关的其他疾病的动物，

应谨慎使用免疫刺激剂，或者可能禁忌使用免疫刺激剂。

In addition to garlic, alterative herbs such as burdock root, dandelion, and red clover serve as useful dietary

adjuncts by helping the body eliminate waste and allowing natural defense systems to work more freely in coping

with fleabites. Nettle may be sprinkled onto your animal’s food to lend nutritive support and a mild antihistamine

action that may reduce the severity of an allergic response. Giving ½–1 teaspoon of the dried herb for each pound of

food fed is a good starting dosage range. If your animal won’t eat dried nettle, you can steep it in hot water or salt-

free meat broth, which you can then add to your companion’s food. Oxeye daisy (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum), a

common waste-area weed, is also said to have mild antihistamine qualities that don’t really block histamine but may

help slow its release.

除了大蒜之外，牛蒡根、蒲公英和红三叶草等替代草药也可以作为有用的饮食添加剂，帮助身体消除废

物，让自然防御系统更自由地应对跳蚤。荨麻可以撒在动物的食物上，以提供营养支持和温和的抗组胺作

用，可以减轻过敏反应的严重程度。每磅食物喂 ½–1 茶匙干草药是一个很好的起始剂量范围。如果您的动

物不吃干荨麻，您可以将其浸泡在热水或无盐肉汤中，然后将其添加到您同伴的食物中。牛眼菊

（Chrysanthemum leucanthemum）是一种常见的荒地杂草，据说也具有温和的抗组胺特性，虽然不能真正阻

止组胺，但可能有助于减缓其释放。

Nettle (dried or steeped in hot water or broth) can reduce an animal’s allergic response to fleas.

荨麻（干燥或浸泡在热水或肉汤中）可以减少动物对跳蚤的过敏反应。

HERBAL FLEA REPELLENT POWDER

草本跳蚤驱除粉

Combine the following dry ingredients:

混合以下干成分：

1 part diatomaceous earth

1份硅藻土

=== PAGE 493 ===
2 parts feverfew flowers

2 份 小白菊花

2 parts mullein flowers

2 份毛蕊花

2 parts yarrow flowers, leaves, and stems

2 份欧蓍草花、叶和茎

1 part sage or thyme

1 份鼠尾草或百里香

Sprinkle and brush into your animal’s coat daily

每天喷洒并刷入动物的皮毛中

If fleabite allergies are severe, itching is persistent, and the skin is red and inflamed, licorice can be used as an

internal anti-inflammatory remedy.

如果跳蚤过敏严重，瘙痒持续，皮肤发红发炎，可以用甘草内服消炎药。

Externally, fleas and their effects can be addressed several ways. The animals’ living environment can be

sprinkled with diatomaceous earth, the sandlike remains of ancient marine organisms. Its activity against parasites is

strictly mechanical, as each tiny particle has sharp points and edges that penetrate the bodies of fleas to cause their

miserable deaths. Because of its gritty, penetrating nature, diatomaceous earth should not be applied to dry, irritated,

hypersensitive skin, and it should never be allowed to contact eyes or other mucous membranes. Care also needs to

be taken when spreading the substance onto carpets since walking around can stir up the dust and may cause

silicosis, a form of pneumonia related to breathing the dust of silica and other sands. Otherwise it’s generally quite

safe. In fact, it’s approved by the FDA for both internal and external use in livestock animals and has been used

safely in the natural care of companion animals for years.

从外部来看，跳蚤及其影响可以通过多种方式解决。这些动物的生活环境可以撒上硅藻土，这是古代海

洋生物的沙状遗迹。它对抗寄生虫的活性完全是机械性的，因为每个微小颗粒都有锋利的点和边缘，可以

穿透跳蚤的身体，导致它们悲惨的死亡。由于硅藻土具有坚韧、渗透性，因此不应将其涂在干燥、受刺

激、过敏的皮肤上，并且切勿接触眼睛或其他粘膜。将物质撒在地毯上时也需要小心，因为四处走动会激

起灰尘，并可能导致矽肺，这是一种与呼吸二氧化硅和其他沙子粉尘有关的肺炎。否则通常是相当安全

的。事实上，它已获得 FDA 批准可用于家畜动物的内部和外部使用，并且多年来一直安全地用于伴侣动物

的自然护理。

Some pet owners may have heard that borax products are good flea exterminators, but borates can be quite toxic

and may cause death if misused, according to Dr. Michael W. Dryden of the American Veterinary Medical

Association (AVMA). One of the manufacturers of borax states that borax is not intended for application to carpet

and upholstery.

美国兽医协会 (AVMA) 的 Michael W. Dryden 博士表示，一些宠物主人可能听说过硼砂产品是很好的跳蚤

灭虫剂，但硼酸盐的毒性很大，如果使用不当可能会导致死亡。硼砂制造商之一表示，硼砂不适用于地毯

和室内装潢。

Frequent vacuuming, washing your animal’s bedding, and regularly steamcleaning your carpet also helps reduce

flea populations in the environment. Some products made with nematodes are available to “infect” and kill fleas

where they live in your house and in the lawns around the house. All of these measures are available through natural

pet-product retailers.

经常用吸尘器吸尘、清洗动物的床上用品以及定期用蒸汽清洁地毯也有助于减少环境中的跳蚤数量。一

些用线虫制成的产品可以“感染”并杀死您家中和家周围草坪上的跳蚤。所有这些措施都可以通过天然宠物

产品零售商获得。

=== PAGE 494 ===
To help eliminate fleas from your animal’s coat and to soothe and heal his itchy skin, several herbs come to mind.

Flowers of feverfew, pyrethrum daisy, or oxeye daisy (or just about any other flower from the Chrysanthemum

genus) contain compounds known as pyrethrins. Pyrethrins are well known to have paralytic activities in fleas. In

fact, pyrethrins and their synthesized derivatives are common in many brands of flea spray. In their natural form,

pyrethrins are safe and can be quite effective. Pyrethrins used in the form of a crude herbal preparation, however,

won’t always kill fleas but may only paralyze them temporarily. This means you should take additional measures to

assure that fleas are out of your life forever.

为了帮助消除动物皮毛上的跳蚤并舒缓和治愈他发痒的皮肤，我想到了几种草药。小白菊、除虫菊或牛

眼菊（或菊花属的任何其他花）的花朵都含有称为除虫菊酯的化合物。众所周知，除虫菊酯对跳蚤具有麻

痹作用。事实上，除虫菊酯及其合成衍生物在许多品牌的跳蚤喷雾剂中都很常见。天然形式的除虫菊酯是

安全的并且非常有效。然而，以粗制草药制剂形式使用的除虫菊酯并不总能杀死跳蚤，而只能暂时麻痹它

们。这意味着您应该采取额外措施，确保跳蚤永远远离您的生活。

Making a pyrethrin flea rinse is as simple as plucking a few handfuls of feverfew flowers, putting them into a cup,

and steeping them in enough hot water to cover them. Briskly stir the mixture every couple of minutes until the

mixture is cool enough to pour over your pet. You can strain the tea away from the flowers or just pour the entire

mixture over your pet, but use the rinse right away—the active compounds break down and lose potency shortly

after the tea is made. Be sure to soak the animal all the way down to the skin, and allow the rinse to air dry on your

companion until the fur is damp but not dripping. Then, at a location that is as far away from the house as possible

(remember, many of the fleas will recover with a hunger), rinse the animal with a strong stream of water while

combing his coat, and look for paralyzed vampires.

制作除虫菊酯跳蚤冲洗剂非常简单，只需摘几把小白菊花，将它们放入杯子中，然后将它们浸泡在足够

的热水中以覆盖它们即可。每隔几分钟快速搅拌一次混合物，直到混合物冷却到足以倒在你的宠物身上。

您可以将茶从花中滤出，或者将整个混合物倒在您的宠物身上，但请立即使用冲洗液 - 茶泡制后不久，活

性化合物就会分解并失去效力。一定要把动物一直浸泡到皮肤，然后让冲洗液在你的同伴身上风干，直到

皮毛湿润但不滴水。然后，在离房子尽可能远的地方（记住，许多跳蚤会在饥饿后恢复），用强力水流冲

洗动物，同时梳理它的外套，并寻找瘫痪的吸血鬼。

Apply oxeye daisy flowers as a flea rinse.

使用牛眼菊花作为跳蚤冲洗剂。

Other flea-killing plant compounds include rotenone and limonene. Rotenone is readily available in the flowers of

mullein (Verbascum thapsus), an Asian weed that occurs in waste areas throughout most of North America and

Europe. The flowering tops are best if used fresh in the form of a strong decoction, but the dried blossoms (available

through herb retailers) can be used too, again in the form of a cooled tea. When using mullein flowers or any other

form of rotenone, be sure to keep the herb away from fish tanks or any amphibians—although it’s safe for mammals,

it is quite toxic to aquatic life forms. Limonene is a volatile oil found in citrus and many of the culinary herbs

=== PAGE 495 ===
belonging to the parsley (Umbelliferae) family. A good source of limonene is contained in celery seeds (up to 60

percent limonene). For the best results, harvest the seeds while they are green and juicy, and make a tea rinse

immediately. Good-quality dried seeds can be used as a second source. Other limonene-bearing “umbels” include

dill (leaf and seed) and fennel (seed).

其他杀死跳蚤的植物化合物包括鱼藤酮和柠檬烯。毛蕊花（Verbascum thapsus）的花中很容易含有鱼藤

酮，毛蕊花是一种亚洲杂草，生长在北美和欧洲大部分地区的荒地中。开花的顶部最好以浓汤的形式新鲜

使用，但干花（可通过草药零售商购买）也可以以冷茶的形式使用。当使用毛蕊花或任何其他形式的鱼藤

酮时，一定要让这种草药远离鱼缸或任何两栖动物——尽管它对哺乳动物来说是安全的，但它对水生生物

来说毒性很大。柠檬烯是一种挥发油，存在于柑橘和许多属于欧芹（伞形科）家族的烹饪香草中。芹菜籽

中含有柠檬烯的良好来源（柠檬烯含量高达 60%）。为了获得最佳效果，请在种子绿色多汁时收获，并立

即冲茶。优质的干种子可以作为第二来源。其他含有柠檬烯的“伞形花序”包括莳萝（叶子和种子）和茴香

（种子）。

Another herb that has been regaining popularity in recent years as an antiflea device is Canadian fleabane (Conyza

canadensis). Until recently, Canadian fleabane (also called horseweed) was known by herbalists primarily as a

urinary astringent. Its common name has caught the attention of several natural pet-product manufacturers, who

claim that it is one of nature’s greatest allies against fleas. Current research has concluded that Canadian fleabane

contains flea-killing limonene as well. A much stronger source of limonene is essential oil of bitter orange, available

through most stores that carry aromatherapy oils. This essential oil is very concentrated—just 6–10 drops diluted

into 8 ounces of water is said to be an effective rinse against fleas. Simply moisten the animal’s skin and coat with

the mixture daily.

另一种近年来重新流行的抗跳蚤药草是加拿大蓬（Conyza canadensis）。直到最近，草药学家还认为加拿

大蓬（也称为马草）主要是一种泌尿收敛剂。它的俗名引起了几家天然宠物产品制造商的注意，他们声称

它是大自然对抗跳蚤的最强大盟友之一。目前的研究得出的结论是，加拿大蓬蓬还含有可杀死跳蚤的柠檬

烯。柠檬烯的更强大来源是苦橙精油，大多数出售香薰油的商店都可以买到。这种精油非常浓缩，只需将

6-10 滴精油稀释到 8 盎司水中，据说就能有效地冲洗掉跳蚤。只需润湿动物的皮肤并每天涂上混合物即

可。

GARLIC AND MULLEIN EAR OIL

大蒜和毛蕊花耳油

Combine the following:

结合以下内容：

1 part garlic oil

1 份 大蒜油

1 part mullein oil

1 份 毛蕊花油

10–20 drops of vitamin E oil for each

每份 10–20 滴维生素 E 油

1 oz of the garlic and mullein oil

1 盎司大蒜和毛蕊花油

mixture

混合物

For instructions on how to make an herb oil, turn to the “Basics of Herbal Preparations” in chapter 1.

=== PAGE 496 ===
有关如何制作草药油的说明，请参阅第一章中的“草药制剂基础知识”。

To help relieve itching and promote healing, a calendula rinse is a good choice, as is aloe juice, which can be

diluted with 4 parts water (e.g., 1 cup of aloe juice to 4 cups of water). Peppermint or lavender may help bring relief

as well. If scratching has left oozing, infected scabs, yarrow, rosemary, or thyme can be generously added to the

rinse. One advantage of using yarrow is that it adds its own insect-repellent qualities to the effort. If inflammation is

severe and scratching has lead to hair loss, an astringent skin rinse may be indicated. Also, many good herbal flea

and coat shampoos are on the market. These can be useful for bringing soothing relief. Don’t shampoo your animal

too often, though, or you might dry out the skin and cause added irritation. When using shampoos, also remember

that their overuse can result in microbial imbalances on the surface of the body. Your animal’s skin supports a

natural community of interdependent organisms, many of which serve antiparasitic or cleansing purposes. To let

them do their jobs it’s probably best not to shampoo your animal more than once or twice a week during a crisis.

为了帮助缓解瘙痒并促进愈合，金盏花冲洗液是一个不错的选择，芦荟汁也是不错的选择，可以用 4 份

水稀释（例如，1 杯芦荟汁加 4 杯水）。薄荷或薰衣草也可能有助于缓解症状。如果抓伤后留下渗液，可以

在冲洗液中加入大量的受感染的痂、西洋蓍草、迷迭香或百里香。使用西洋蓍草的一个优点是它可以增加

其自身的驱虫特性。如果炎症严重且抓挠导致脱发，则可能需要进行收敛性皮肤冲洗。此外，市场上还有

许多优质的草药除跳蚤和外套洗发水。这些可以有效缓解疼痛。不过，不要经常给你的动物洗澡，否则你

的皮肤可能会变得干燥并引起额外的刺激。使用洗发水时，还请记住，过度使用会导致身体表面的微生物

失衡。动物的皮肤支持着相互依存的有机体的自然群落，其中许多具有抗寄生虫或清洁的目的。为了让它

们完成工作，在危机期间最好每周给动物洗头的次数不要超过一到两次。

By now you might be wondering why we haven’t mentioned North American pennyroyal (Hedeoma pulegioides).

Well, we won’t argue about the effectiveness of pennyroyal at deterring fleas. In fact, it’s one of the best antiflea

herbs around, which is why it is included in dozens of commercial flea preparations. The problem with it is that the

volatile oils (composed mostly of an oil called pulegone) contained in pennyroyal can be toxic to animals, with the

list of potential side effects beginning with nausea, vomiting, and abortifacient properties and ending with elevated

blood pressure and possible kidney and liver damage. While most flea dips, sprays, and powders that contain

pennyroyal include relatively dilute concentrations of the volatile oil, a cumulative risk may exist to animals who

lick off these topical preparations. Cats can be very sensitive to pennyroyal, and those with preexisting kidney

disease (a widespread, chronic problem in cats) might even die from it. In our minds, such risks are unnecessary in

the presence of safer, more holistic flea control measures. One such measure is the Triple-Punch Herbal Flea Rinse.

现在您可能想知道为什么我们没有提到北美薄荷（Hedeoma pulegioides）。好吧，我们不会争论薄荷醇在

阻止跳蚤方面的有效性。事实上，它是最好的抗跳蚤草药之一，这就是为什么它被包含在数十种商业跳蚤

制剂中。问题是，薄荷油中含有的挥发油（主要由一种叫做胡薄荷酮的油组成）可能对动物有毒，潜在的

副作用包括恶心、呕吐和堕胎特性，最后是血压升高和血压升高。可能的肾脏和肝脏损害。虽然大多数含

有薄荷醛的跳蚤药液、喷雾剂和粉末含有相对较稀浓度的挥发油，但舔掉这些外用制剂的动物可能存在累

积风险。猫对彭尼罗非常敏感，患有肾脏疾病（猫中普遍存在的慢性问题）的猫甚至可能因此而死亡。我

们认为，如果有更安全、更全面的跳蚤控制措施，这种风险是不必要的。其中一项措施是三重草药跳蚤冲

洗液。

TRIPLE-PUNCH HERBAL FLEA RINSE

三重草药跳蚤冲洗液

1 part feverfew flowers

1 份 小白菊花

1 part mullein flowers (keep away from aquatic animals!)

1 份毛蕊花（远离水生动物！）

1 part yarrow flowers, leaves, and stems

1 份 西洋蓍草花、叶和茎

=== PAGE 497 ===
1 part celery seeds (freshly ground)

1 份 芹菜籽（现磨）

3 parts calendula flowers

3 份金盏花

Make a tea rinse of the herbs by covering the mixture with boiling water and allowing it to stand until

cooled. To add even more “punch” to the formula, 6–10 drops of Bitter Orange essential oil can be added to

each 8 ounces of rinse.

用沸水覆盖混合物并静置直至冷却，对草药进行茶冲洗。为了给配方添加更多“冲击力”，可以在每 8

盎司的冲洗液中添加 6-10 滴苦橙精油。

Herbal flea powders usually aren’t as effective as rinses, but they are handy for animals and people on the go. The

key to success in making a powder is to be sure that all of the herbal ingredients are as fresh as possible. Pyrethrin-

bearing plants lose much of their potency after they are dried, and aromatic herbs such as lavender or yarrow lose

their flea-repellent pungency eventually. The best you can hope for with a homemade flea powder is “flea

discouragement.” It’s unlikely that you will succeed in eliminating or repelling every biting flea without taking other

measures as well. To keep your flea powder as fresh and active as possible, make it in small, frequent batches. An

electric coffee grinder or a mortar and pestle can be used to grind your herbs into powder.

草药除蚤粉通常不如漱口水有效，但对于忙碌的动物和人来说很方便。成功制作粉末的关键是确保所有

草药成分尽可能新鲜。含有除虫菊素的植物在干燥后会失去大部分效力，而薰衣草或西洋蓍草等芳香草本

最终会失去驱除跳蚤的刺激性。自制跳蚤粉所能达到的最大效果就是“抑制跳蚤”。如果不采取其他措施，

您不太可能成功消灭或驱除每只咬人的跳蚤。为了尽可能保持跳蚤粉的新鲜和活性，请小批量、频繁地制

作。可以使用电动咖啡研磨机或研钵和研杵将草药磨成粉末。

=== PAGE 498 ===
MITES

螨类

Mites are an excellent example of just how common parasites are. These tiny, often microscopic, arachnids are

everywhere and on everything. A healthy human body carries millions of them. In fact, all living land animals carry

mites—even fleas and mites have mites!

螨虫就是一个很好的例子，说明了寄生虫是多么常见。这些微小的、通常是微观的蜘蛛纲动物无处不在、

无处不在。健康的人体携带着数以百万计的细胞。事实上，所有活着的陆地动物都携带螨虫——甚至跳蚤

和螨虫也有螨虫！

When you’re finished scratching, it’s important to know that relatively few of the parasitic varieties of mites cause

problems. Those that do cause problems burrow under the top layers of the skin to cause hair loss, skin

disfigurement, and painful lesions on the skin and in the ears. In dogs, cats, horses, and other mammals, various

species of skin mites are commonly referred to as mange. In instances of human infection, we usually refer to them

as scabies.

当您完成抓挠后，重要的是要知道相对较少的寄生螨虫品种会引起问题。那些确实会引起问题的物质会

钻入皮肤表层，导致脱发、皮肤变形以及皮肤和耳朵上的疼痛性病变。在狗、猫、马和其他哺乳动物中，

各种皮螨通常被称为疥螨。在人类感染的情况下，我们通常将其称为疥疮。

Various species of mange are differentiated by the specific nature of the infections they cause. Sarcoptic mange

(Sarcoptes scabiei) is the most contagious (some species can be transmitted to humans) and often the most severe

form of mange, characterized most frequently by crusty, reddish brown lesions that usually appear first on the head

and neck, between the legs, or in the “armpits” of the victim animal. Demodectic mange, or red mange (genus

Demodex), is a far less contagious mite that infects hair follicles, often causing hair loss and a foul-smelling bacterial

infection of the skin. Both chorioptic mange (genus Chorioptis) and psoroptic mange (genus Psoroptes) are common

in cattle, horses, sheep, and goats and produce similar symptoms. Otitis externa, or otodectic ear mange, occurs in

dogs and cats and is characterized by inflammation and brown, waxy discharge from the ears. Rabbits are

susceptible to ear mange as well. Occurrence of ear mites in horses and other large animals is relatively uncommon.

不同种类的疥癣因其引起的感染的具体性质而有所不同。疥癣菌（Sarcoptes scabiei）是最具传染性的

（某些物种可以传染给人类），并且通常是最严重的疥癣形式，最常见的特征是硬皮、红棕色病变，通常

首先出现在头部和颈部、腿部之间，或在受害动物的“腋下”。蠕形螨或红疥螨（蠕形螨属）是一种传染性

极低的螨虫，它会感染毛囊，经常导致脱发和皮肤出现恶臭的细菌感染。绒毛疥癣（Chorioptis 属）和皮肤

疥癣（Psoroptes 属）在牛、马、绵羊和山羊中都很常见，并且会产生相似的症状。外耳炎或耳道性耳疥疮

发生在狗和猫身上，其特征是耳朵发炎并排出棕色蜡状分泌物。兔子也容易感染耳疥癣。马和其他大型动

物中耳螨的发生相对罕见。

All of the mange-causing mites have one thing in common: they are all opportunity-seeking parasites that prefer a

defenseless host. Therefore, prevention in the form of a well-balanced natural diet that provides immune system

support should begin before an infection occurs.

所有引起疥癣的螨虫都有一个共同点：它们都是寻求机会的寄生虫，更喜欢无防御能力的宿主。因此，

应在感染发生之前开始以提供免疫系统支持的均衡天然饮食的形式进行预防。

Fortunately, herbal measures can be quite effective against the various forms of mange. The foremost herb to

consider is garlic. Mites don’t tolerate sulfur compounds, and garlic contains hundreds of them (which is why garlic

smells like it does). For ear mites or localized mite infestations on birds and mammals, garlic oil can be applied to

the affected areas twice daily. In addition to its direct intervention with mites, garlic oil helps minimize bacterial

infection. When using garlic oil, however, make sure that it’s not too concentrated or it may cause irritation. Another

good ear mite herb is mullein flower oil. Mullein flowers possess antiparasitic and antibacterial activities that seem

well suited to infections of the ear, especially when combined with garlic oil. Vitamin E oil can be added to this

combination to help promote healing. The olive oil used as a base for both of these oils also lends soothing and

healing qualities to the skin.

幸运的是，草药措施可以非常有效地对抗各种形式的疥癣。最重要的草药是大蒜。螨虫不能耐受硫化合

=== PAGE 499 ===
物，而大蒜中含有数百种硫化合物（这就是大蒜闻起来像这样的原因）。对于耳螨或鸟类和哺乳动物的局

部螨虫感染，可以将大蒜油涂抹在受影响的区域，每天两次。除了直接干预螨虫之外，大蒜油还有助于最

大程度地减少细菌感染。但是，使用大蒜油时，请确保其浓度不要太高，否则可能会引起刺激。另一种很

好的耳螨药草是毛蕊花油。毛蕊花具有抗寄生虫和抗菌活性，似乎非常适合耳部感染，尤其是与大蒜油结

合使用时。可以将维生素 E 油添加到该组合中以帮助促进愈合。作为这两种油的基础的橄榄油还可以舒缓

和治愈皮肤。

For mange infestations that are localized close to the eyes of an animal, you will probably want to purchase or

make an ointment or salve preparation. This minimizes the risk of the herb contacting the eyes.

对于靠近动物眼睛的疥癣感染，您可能需要购买或制作药膏或药膏制剂。这可以最大限度地减少草药接

触眼睛的风险。

Other herbs to consider for mite infections are lavender, yarrow, Oregon grape, goldenseal (provided it is from

cultivated sources), and licorice. Any of these herbs can be used in oils, salves, or ointments as well, or they can be

made into a skin rinse (a good option for infections that are generalized over larger portions of the animal’s body).

Licorice serves as a good alternative for animals who are sensitive to topical applications of garlic. If you have

access to it, neem leaf (Azadirachta indica), from a tree found in India and Pakistan, can make an effective skin

rinse against many forms of mange.

其他可用于治疗螨虫感染的草药有薰衣草、西洋蓍草、俄勒冈葡萄、金印草（前提是来自栽培来源）和

甘草。这些草药中的任何一种都可以用于油、药膏或软膏中，或者可以制成皮肤冲洗液（对于动物身体较

大部位普遍存在的感染来说是一个不错的选择）。对于对局部使用大蒜敏感的动物来说，甘草是一个很好

的替代品。如果您有机会获得印度和巴基斯坦的印楝叶（Azadirachta indica），可以有效地冲洗皮肤，对抗

多种形式的疥癣。

For birds who are crawling with mites, a pinch of Oregon grape or lavender can be infused into their birdbath. For

lizards with mite infections, a wet towel wipe of weak Oregon grape, yarrow, or lavender tea might help.

对于爬满螨虫的鸟类，可以将一小撮俄勒冈葡萄或薰衣草注入水盆中。对于患有螨虫感染的蜥蜴，用湿

毛巾擦拭淡味俄勒冈葡萄、西洋蓍草或薰衣草茶可能会有所帮助。

=== PAGE 500 ===
LICE

虱子

Several species of lice can infest both mammals and birds. They can generally be divided into two categories: those

that suck blood from their hosts (Anopleura) and those that bite their victims (Mallophaga). Regardless, the term

lousy is derived from the concept of louse infestation, and the repulsiveness the word conveys describes the situation

accurately. Louse infestation is a common problem for animals who live in cramped or unclean living quarters. The

problem is characterized by irritated, itchy skin and frequent scratching.

几种虱子可以感染哺乳动物和鸟类。它们通常可分为两类：吸食宿主血液的昆虫（Anopleura）和叮咬受害

者的昆虫（Mallophaga）。无论如何，“糟糕”一词源自虱子侵扰的概念，这个词所传达的令人厌恶的感觉准

确地描述了这种情况。对于生活在狭窄或不干净的生活区的动物来说，虱子侵扰是一个常见问题。该问题

的特点是皮肤发炎、发痒和经常抓挠。

Lice are tough critters and can be hard to beat with herbs. The most effective and time-honored herb approaches

for lice include toxic heavyweights such as tansy (Tanacetum vulgare) and even water hemlock (Cicuta spp.), either

of which can kill an animal host. On the safer side of the herbal spectrum are licorice, yucca, wormwood, sage,

yarrow, yellow dock, lavender, and bee balm. All of these herbs can be used singly or in combination in the form of

a daily skin rinse. A daily sprinkling of diatomaceous earth onto the animal’s coat may be effective, too.

虱子是顽强的生物，很难用草药打败。针对虱子最有效且历史悠久的草药方法包括有毒的重量级药物，

例如艾菊（Tanacetum vulgare）甚至水毒芹（Cicuta spp.），这两种药物都可以杀死动物宿主。比较安全的

草药有甘草、丝兰、艾草、鼠尾草、西洋蓍草、黄坞、薰衣草和蜂香膏。所有这些草药都可以单独使用，

也可以以每日皮肤冲洗的形式组合使用。每天在动物的皮毛上撒上硅藻土也可能有效。

=== PAGE 501 ===
INTESTINAL WORMS

肠道蠕虫

Worms are often viewed as parasites at their most disgusting worst, but again this is largely because we have a big

problem with the thought of things crawling around inside our bodies. Sorry if this gives you the “crawlies,” but

worms are a natural fact of life. We all have them in one form or another.

蠕虫通常被视为最恶心的寄生虫，但这很大程度上是因为我们对物体在我们体内爬行的想法有一个很大的

问题。很抱歉，如果这让您感到“爬行”，但蠕虫是生活中的自然现象。我们都以一种或另一种形式拥有它

们。

Animal guardians tend to overreact to the possibility of worms with the precautionary use of chemical wormers.

As we mentioned earlier, such practice is contrary and counterproductive to the purposes of holistic health care. We

are not saying that worms cannot be life threatening but that the health risks associated with preventive drug

therapies may outweigh the actual need for them, especially in healthy animals who are not likely to be exposed to

roundworms, whipworms, or hookworms.

动物监护人往往会对蠕虫的可能性反应过度，并预防性地使用化学驱虫剂。正如我们前面提到的，这种

做法与整体医疗保健的目的背道而驰，适得其反。我们并不是说蠕虫不会危及生命，而是说与预防性药物

治疗相关的健康风险可能超过其实际需要，特别是对于不太可能接触蛔虫、鞭虫或钩虫的健康动物。

The most common type of intestinal parasites are known as cestodes, or tapeworms. Tapeworms can be

transmitted by fleas, feces, or food sources. In rural areas, dogs and cats often become infected by eating rodents.

Tapeworms may live in an animal’s digestive tract for quite a while, sometimes indefinitely, before they are

detected, and they are seldom harmful to the host animal. Usually, we won’t even know that our companions have

tapeworms until a fecal analysis is done or until we see the worms’ body segments in the animals’ stools. The

segments (put your sandwich down!) look very much like grains of rice. The potential of tapeworms to cause harm

to an animal is relative to the general health of the animal and the extent of the tapeworm infestation. In other words,

if an animal is generally healthy, a moderate population of intestine-dwelling tapeworms is usually harmless. And if

the animal is holistically healthy, has a strong immune system, properly balanced intestinal flora, and is being fed a

good diet, tapeworm infestations are likely to be a temporary issue. For instance, we live on 60 remote acres in the

Montana Rockies, where our two dogs roam freely around the house. Both occasionally eat a ground squirrel or two

(sometimes in the form of carrion), and we expect both of them to have tapeworms by the end of summer. But

because they are healthy, most if not all of the worms (as confirmed by fecal analysis) are gone from their bodies

after a couple of months of infestation. The opportunity seekers just can’t find a stronghold, or they don’t like the

accommodations.

最常见的肠道寄生虫类型被称为绦虫或绦虫。绦虫可以通过跳蚤、粪便或食物传播。在农村地区，狗和

猫经常因食用啮齿动物而受到感染。在被发现之前，绦虫可能会在动物的消化道中生活相当长一段时间，

有时甚至是无限期，而且它们很少对宿主动物造成伤害。通常，在进行粪便分析或在动物粪便中看到蠕虫

的身体部分之前，我们甚至不会知道我们的同伴患有绦虫。这些片段（放下你的三明治！）看起来非常像

米粒。绦虫对动物造成伤害的可能性与动物的总体健康状况和绦虫感染的程度有关。换句话说，如果动物

总体上是健康的，那么肠道内一定数量的绦虫通常是无害的。如果动物整体健康，具有强大的免疫系统，

肠道菌群适当平衡，并且饮食良好，绦虫感染可能只是暂时的问题。例如，我们住在蒙大拿州落基山脉 60

英亩的偏远土地上，我们的两只狗在房子周围自由地漫步。两者偶尔都会吃一两只地松鼠（有时以腐肉的

形式），我们预计到夏末它们都会感染绦虫。但由于它们是健康的，大多数（如果不是全部）蠕虫（经粪

便分析证实）在感染几个月后就会从它们的体内消失。寻求机会的人只是找不到据点，或者他们不喜欢这

里的住宿条件。

It’s our contention that in most instances, the reason tapeworms are approached with chemical interventions is not

always because a real and urgent need to eliminate them exists but because we can’t deal with their less-than-

appealing nature. Yes, they’re disgusting. But are we really helping an animal when we use unnecessary, potentially

toxic measures to expel them? We don’t think so.

我们的观点是，在大多数情况下，采用化学干预措施来对付绦虫的原因并不总是因为存在真正而紧迫的

消灭它们的需要，而是因为我们无法应对它们不那么吸引人的本质。是的，他们很恶心。但是，当我们使

=== PAGE 502 ===
用不必要的、可能有毒的措施来驱逐动物时，我们真的在帮助它们吗？我们不这么认为。

Roundworms, hookworms, whip-worms, and threadworms present a much greater risk to your companion

because these worms can cause severe intestinal damage and can leave the digestive tract to infest the blood and

other organs. Once these parasites leave the digestive tract, they can be difficult to treat.

蛔虫、钩虫、鞭虫和蛔虫对您的伴侣构成更大的风险，因为这些蠕虫会导致严重的肠道损伤，并可能离

开消化道感染血液和其他器官。一旦这些寄生虫离开消化道，就很难治疗。

To help your dog or cat keep intestinal populations in check and to encourage earlier expulsion by less invasive,

more natural means, garlic can be fed in moderation on the animal’s food. Fennel, grated raw carrot, shredded

coconut, and cooked grains also might be of benefit if added to the animal’s diet. (Feed as much as the animal wants

to eat.) Fresh, raw, unsalted pumpkin seeds help expel worms and generous portions can be fed as a wholesome treat

to any animal. The seeds may need to be ground up and added to your pet’s food. (You can grind a small batch

ahead of time and keep it in a jar in the freezer until you’re ready to use it.) Diatomaceous earth is effective at

reducing intestinal parasite populations and can be fed at the following recommended rates (approved by the FDA)

—large dogs over 55 pounds can have up to 1 tablespoon per day, small dogs and cats can have 1 teaspoon per day.

Goats, sheep, cattle, horses, and other large animals can be fed in portions up to 1 percent of their daily dry rations;

and chickens and most birds can receive up to 5 percent. Oregon grape may be given internally to birds, dogs, cats,

horses, and other mammals as a low-alcohol tincture or decoction. A dose of 12 drops per 20 pounds of the animal’s

body weight (or just a few drops for birds), twice daily for up to one week is appropriate. After one week, give the

animal’s system a break for two or three days before continuing the twice-daily doses. Chamomile has mild worm-

expelling properties, and pineapple weed (Matricaria matricarioides ), a wild and weedy cousin of chamomile, is

believed to possess much stronger activities against roundworms and whipworms.

为了帮助您的狗或猫控制肠道菌群，并通过侵入性较小、更自然的方式鼓励其尽早排出，可以在动物食

物中适量喂食大蒜。如果将茴香、磨碎的生胡萝卜、椰丝和煮熟的谷物添加到动物的饮食中也可能有益。

（动物想吃多少就喂多少。）新鲜、生的、无盐的南瓜子有助于驱除蠕虫，大量的南瓜子可以作为任何动

物的健康食品。种子可能需要磨碎并添加到宠物的食物中。 （您可以提前研磨一小批，然后将其放入冰箱

的罐子中，直到准备使用为止。）硅藻土可有效减少肠道寄生虫数量，并且可以按照以下推荐的比例饲喂

（经批准） FDA）——体重超过 55 磅的大型犬每天最多可摄入 1 汤匙，小型犬和猫每天可摄入 1 茶匙。山

羊、绵羊、牛、马和其他大型动物的饲喂量最多可达每日干粮的 1%；鸡和大多数鸟类最多可获得 5% 的补

贴。俄勒冈葡萄可以作为低酒精酊剂或煎剂内服给鸟类、狗、猫、马和其他哺乳动物。剂量为每 20 磅动物

体重 12 滴（鸟类只需几滴），每天两次，持续一周为宜。一周后，让动物的系统休息两到三天，然后继续

每天两次的剂量。洋甘菊具有温和的驱虫特性，菠萝草（母菊）是洋甘菊的野生杂草近亲，据信对蛔虫和

鞭虫具有更强的活性。

ANTIWORM FOOD SUPPLEMENT

抗蠕虫食品补充剂

Combine the following dry ingredients:

混合以下干成分：

2 parts unsalted, raw pumpkin seeds (ground or whole)

2 份无盐生南瓜籽（磨碎或整粒）

1 part garlic powder

1 份 大蒜粉

1 part fennel seed

1 份 茴香籽

1 part yucca root

=== PAGE 503 ===
1 份 丝兰根

Feed the mixture as part of your companion’s diet at a dosage of 1 teaspoon per pound of food fed daily.

Feed five days on and two days off each week until worm populations are reduced to acceptable levels. If

this formula proves to be ineffective, try adding 1 part Oregon grape root powder or 1 part wormwood.

将混合物作为您同伴饮食的一部分，每日每磅食物添加 1 茶匙的剂量。每周喂食五天，休息两天，

直到蠕虫数量减少到可接受的水平。如果此配方被证明无效，请尝试添加 1 份俄勒冈葡萄根粉或 1

份艾草。

Other worming agents include black walnut and wormwood. Black walnut hull is an effective worming agent, but

it must be used with care because of the potentially irritating tannin constituents it contains. Black walnut should not

be used in or around horses, as it may be toxic to them. Wormwood, of course, is a classic dewormer, but it should

not be used for long periods and not at all in animals with liver disease. Even more dangerous are tansy and rue. In

our opinion, these herbs should be avoided altogether because they’re too harsh on the liver.

其他驱虫剂包括黑胡桃和艾草。黑胡桃壳是一种有效的驱虫剂，但必须小心使用，因为它含有潜在刺激

性的单宁成分。黑胡桃木不应该在马体内或周围使用，因为它可能对马有毒。当然，艾草是一种经典的驱

虫剂，但不应该长期使用，更不要用于患有肝病的动物。更危险的是艾菊和芸香。我们认为，应该完全避

免这些草药，因为它们对肝脏刺激太大。

Herbs that are rich in soaplike saponin constituents such as yucca, valerian, and licorice are sometimes effective

as worming agents. Yucca also helps by optimizing absorption of nutrients in the small intestine, an attribute that

might be useful in cases of severe infection in which nutrient absorption is hindered by the presence of too many

hungry parasites.

富含肥皂样皂苷成分的草药，如丝兰、缬草和甘草，有时可作为有效的驱虫剂。丝兰还有助于优化小肠

中营养物质的吸收，这一特性在严重感染的情况下可能有用，在严重感染的情况下，营养吸收因存在太多

饥饿的寄生虫而受到阻碍。

Many herbal wormers contain laxative or emetic herbs such as senna, cascara sagrada, aloe, or turkey rhubarb.

The idea behind their inclusion is to flush out the parasites by stimulating bowel movement and loosening the stool.

In holistic reality, this approach adds stress to the body, causes discomfort to the animal, may cause dehydration and

nutrient depletion, and may lead to laxative dependency if used for too long a period. The overall effectiveness of

expelling worms is outweighed by the invasiveness of the therapy. If constipation is associated with a worm

infestation, marshmallow, plantain, or slippery elm can be used to lubricate the digestive tract without pulling

needed fluids from the body, and hepatics such as yellow dock, Oregon grape, or a small pinch of turmeric can be

fed to increase bile production and improve digestion. Slippery elm or plantain may be beneficial in cases of

wormrelated diarrhea because these herbs contain astringent qualities that gently regulate the passage of fluid into

the intestine. A safe, general worming remedy that can be added to your companion’s food can be found on page

273.

许多草药驱虫剂含有泻药或催吐药草，如番泻叶、鼠李皮、芦荟或火鸡大黄。它们背后的想法是通过刺

激排便和疏松粪便来清除寄生虫。从整体上看，这种方法会给身体增加压力，导致动物不适，可能导致脱

水和营养消耗，如果使用时间过长，还可能导致泻药依赖。治疗的侵入性超过了驱虫的整体效果。如果便

秘与蠕虫感染有关，可以使用棉花糖、车前草或滑榆来润滑消化道，而不需要从体内抽出所需的液体，并

且可以使用肝脏药物，例如黄坞、俄勒冈葡萄或一小撮姜黄。喂食以增加胆汁产生并改善消化。滑榆或车

前草可能对蠕虫相关腹泻有益，因为这些草药含有收敛性成分，可以温和地调节液体进入肠道的通道。可

以在第 273 页找到一种安全、通用的驱虫药物，可以添加到您同伴的食物中。

=== PAGE 504 ===
GIARDIASIS

贾第鞭毛虫病

Giardiasis is a digestive disease caused by cyst-forming impregnation of protozoa of the Giardia genus in the

mucosal lining of the intestines. The result is nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and other flulike symptoms for several

weeks. The most common means of infestation comes from ingestion of water that has been contaminated by the

fecal matter of fish and other animals. Animals are much more resistant to Giardia than humans are, but they are still

susceptible. As with all parasites, severity of infestation depends on the overall health of the host. Symptoms range

from loss of appetite to diarrhea, vomiting, weight loss, dehydration, and general debility.

贾第鞭毛虫病是一种消化系统疾病，由贾第鞭毛虫属原生动物在肠粘膜内壁形成包囊而引起。结果是恶

心、呕吐、腹泻和其他类似流感的症状持续数周。最常见的感染途径是摄入被鱼类和其他动物粪便污染的

水。动物对贾第鞭毛虫的抵抗力比人类强得多，但它们仍然很容易感染。与所有寄生虫一样，感染的严重

程度取决于宿主的整体健康状况。症状包括食欲不振、腹泻、呕吐、体重减轻、脱水和全身虚弱。

Herbal interventions are moderately successful at best. Tinctures are the best form of application here because

their high concentrations of readily available constituents are needed against these tough little beasties. Of particular

interest are Oregon grape, goldenseal (from cultivated sources), and other herbs that contain the active alkaloid

constituent berberine. Berberine, being water soluble, highly assimilable, and able to withstand the digestive acids

that destroy many other types of antibiotic agents, finds it way deep into the digestive tract to work its wonders,

especially when given in concentrated extract form over periods of several days. Garlic may lend antiprotozoa

support as well. Licorice is a good adjunct, lending antimicrobial, anti-inflammatory, and healing properties to the

effort. Cleavers helps drain lymph-engorged tissues that surround the cysts.

草药干预最多只能取得一定的成功。酊剂是最好的应用形式，因为它们需要高浓度的现成成分来对抗这

些顽强的小野兽。特别令人感兴趣的是俄勒冈葡萄、白毛茛（来自栽培来源）和其他含有活性生物碱成分

小檗碱的草药。小檗碱是水溶性的，高度同化，能够抵抗消化酸，这些酸会破坏许多其他类型的抗生素药

物，它可以深入消化道发挥其神奇作用，特别是在连续几天以浓缩提取物形式服用时。大蒜也可以提供抗

原虫支持。甘草是一种很好的辅助剂，具有抗菌、抗炎和治疗功效。切割刀有助于排出囊肿周围充满淋巴

液的组织。

A REMEDY FOR GIARDIASIS

贾第虫病的治疗方法

Combine the following tinctures:

结合以下酊剂：

2 parts Oregon grape

2 份 俄勒冈葡萄

2 parts licorice

2份甘草

2 parts cleavers

2 件切肉刀

1 part garlic

1 份 大蒜

This formula can be fed to dogs, cats, birds, horses, and other large herbivores at least one hour before

=== PAGE 505 ===
feeding, at a dosage of about ¼ teaspoon (1 milliliter) per 20 pounds of the animal’s body weight, twice daily

for up to ten days. If positive results aren’t seen within ten days, it’s time to call your holistic vet. Low-

alcohol tinctures are best because of their relative ease of administering, but alcohol tinctures can be used

provided they are diluted to half-strength with water, which means you will have to give the animal twice the

liquid volume.

该配方可在喂食前至少一小时喂给狗、猫、鸟、马和其他大型食草动物，剂量为每 20 磅动物体重约

1/4 茶匙（1 毫升），每天两次，最多十天。如果十天内没有看到积极的结果，是时候打电话给你的

整体兽医了。低酒精酊剂是最好的，因为它们相对容易给药，但可以使用酒精酊剂，前提是它们用

水稀释到一半浓度，这意味着您必须给动物提供两倍的液体量。

=== PAGE 506 ===
HEARTWORM

心丝虫

The term heartworm is really a misnomer, as the parasitic worm (Dirofilaria immitis) that causes the disease usually

infects the pulmonary arteries, not the heart itself.

心丝虫一词确实用词不当，因为引起这种疾病的寄生虫（恶丝虫）通常感染肺动脉，而不是心脏本身。

Heartworm is generally passed by mosquitoes, who pick up the parasite from the bloodstreams of dogs (less

frequently from cats and ferrets) while the worms are in their prelarval stage. While inside the mosquito, the infant

parasites called microfilaria mature into infective adults that are deposited into other host animals. After two to four

months, the parasites penetrate blood vessel walls and travel to the pulmonary arteries, where they reproduce if

conditions are right. While the worms are in the pulmonary arteries, the body launches an immunologic attack

against them. If the worms have already reproduced to numbers that the immune system cannot effectively control,

an allergic response ensues, and the pulmonary arteries and surrounding lung tissues may become severely inflamed,

causing a life-threatening situation. Animals with advanced stages of heartworm infestation may exhibit chronic

coughing; labored breathing; diminished physical stamina and a low tolerance to stress; weight loss; and heart

failure.

心丝虫通常由蚊子传播，当蠕虫处于幼虫前期时，蚊子会从狗的血液中感染寄生虫（猫和雪貂的情况较

少）。在蚊子体内，称为微丝蚴的婴儿寄生虫成熟为感染性成虫，并沉积在其他宿主动物体内。两到四个

月后，寄生虫会穿透血管壁并到达肺动脉，如果条件合适，它们会在那里繁殖。当蠕虫在肺动脉中时，身

体会对它们发起免疫攻击。如果蠕虫繁殖到免疫系统无法有效控制的数量，就会发生过敏反应，肺动脉和

周围的肺组织可能会严重发炎，导致危及生命的情况。患有心丝虫感染晚期的动物可能会表现出慢性咳

嗽；呼吸困难；体力下降，抗压能力低；减肥；和心力衰竭。

Unfortunately, the scenario becomes even more frightening when we consider conventional treatment of the

disease, which involves the use of thiacetarsamide, an intravenously administered arsenic derivative that poisons the

parasites at great expense to the host animal’s liver. In our opinion and that of several holistic veterinarians, the

deworming medication ivermectin and other preventive measures for heartworm can also be detrimental to an

animal, which brings us to an especially important point in the prevention of the disease.

不幸的是，当我们考虑该疾病的常规治疗时，这种情况变得更加可怕，其中涉及使用硫乙酰胺，一种静

脉注射的砷衍生物，它会毒害寄生虫，对宿主动物的肝脏造成巨大的损害。我们和几位整体兽医认为，驱

虫药物伊维菌素和其他心丝虫预防措施也可能对动物有害，这使我们在预防这种疾病方面尤为重要。

In some areas of the U.S., heartworm is a real and constant threat to companion animals. But in many areas of

North America, it is more of a fear-induced paranoia than an actual danger. In Montana, for instance (where we

live), heartworm is almost unheard of. Unfortunately, horror stories about heartworm lead many people to medicate

their animals anyway. We believe that people should rationally weigh the pros and cons as well as the need of

administering a preventive heartworm treatment to their animal companions.

在美国的一些地区，心丝虫对伴侣动物来说是一种真正且持续的威胁。但在北美的许多地区，这更多的

是一种恐惧引起的偏执，而不是真正的危险。例如，在蒙大拿州（我们居住的地方），心丝虫几乎闻所未

闻。不幸的是，有关心丝虫的恐怖故事导致许多人无论如何都对他们的动物进行药物治疗。我们认为，人

们应该理性权衡利弊以及对动物伙伴进行预防性心丝虫治疗的必要性。

Another problem arises from the blood and antigen tests that are performed to detect heartworms. In these tests,

30 percent of infested dogs do not test positive, meaning that the disease may progress unchecked. Likewise, a

positive test for heartworm does not necessarily mean that the parasites will become problematic, especially if the

host animal is healthy.

另一个问题来自于检测心丝虫的血液和抗原测试。在这些测试中，30% 的受感染狗的测试结果不呈阳

性，这意味着疾病可能会不受控制地发展。同样，心丝虫检测呈阳性并不一定意味着寄生虫会出现问题，

特别是在宿主动物健康的情况下。

Natural prevention of heartworm begins with identifying just how much “at risk” your companion is. If you live

in a high-risk area, your animal’s coat should never be cut. Allow it to grow to full length and serve its natural

=== PAGE 507 ===
function as an antimosquito barrier. Areas where mosquito populations are especially high (such as swamps,

sloughs, and other breeding grounds) should be avoided, and perhaps a tightly knit cotton or breathable nylon

garment is in order for shorthaired dogs. (Several clothing catalogs for dogs are available.) Proper nutrition and tonic

immune system support will build and maintain your companion’s resistance to the parasite. In addition to a full

array of supplemental vitamins and minerals, garlic can be added to an animal’s diet to strengthen the immune

system. When venturing into higher-risk areas, echinacea can be preventatively administered for two or three days

before the excursion and continue for three days after.

对心丝虫的自然预防首先要确定您的伴侣的“危险程度”。如果您生活在高风险地区，切勿剪掉动物的皮

毛。让它充分生长并发挥其作为防蚊屏障的天然功能。应避免蚊子数量特别多的地区（例如沼泽、泥沼和

其他滋生地），对于短毛狗来说，也许穿紧密编织的棉质或透气尼龙衣服。 （有多种狗的服装目录可供选

择。）适当的营养和滋补免疫系统支持将增强并维持您的伴侣对寄生虫的抵抗力。除了一系列补充维生素

和矿物质之外，大蒜还可以添加到动物的饮食中以增强免疫系统。当冒险进入高风险地区时，可以在旅行

前两三天预防性服用紫锥菊，并在旅行后持续三天。

If your animal does contract heartworm, don’t panic. Instead, continue supporting the immune system and call

your holistic veterinarian to determine the next step of action. There are many options. Among them may be black

walnut hull tincture (made from unripe green hulls instead of dried ones). As of 1999, we had been contacted by

several individuals who claim that black walnut hull may be effective at controlling the parasites. Given what we

know about this herb and the parasite, we remain skeptical but hopeful that clinical use will validate this claim.

如果您的动物确实感染了心丝虫，请不要惊慌。相反，继续支持免疫系统并致电您的整体兽医来确定下

一步行动。有很多选择。其中可能是黑胡桃壳酊剂（由未成熟的绿色外壳而不是干燥的外壳制成）。截至

1999 年，已有几位人士联系我们，声称黑胡桃壳可能能有效控制寄生虫。鉴于我们对这种草药和寄生虫的

了解，我们仍然持怀疑态度，但希望临床使用能够验证这一说法。

=== PAGE 508 ===
PREGNANCY AND LACTATION

怀孕和哺乳期

One of the most frequently asked questions we hear as animal herbalists is, What should I be giving to a pregnant

animal? Our response is often a cause of disappointment: Aside from the elements of good nutrition, as little as

possible.

作为动物草药师，我们最常听到的问题之一是，我应该给怀孕的动物吃什么？我们的反应常常令人失望：

除了良好的营养元素之外，尽可能少。

During pregnancy and lactation, a mother’s body is in a state of continual hormonal fluctuation. Her nutritional

demands change as her body experiences a roller-coaster ride of metabolic events that are incomparable to any other

experience. It is a period when her body must maintain delicate checks and balances while responding to

unprecedented demands. These are times when the proactive efforts of an animal herbalist really pay off. Having

received a good natural diet, a healthy living environment, and complementary measures of health-supporting

vitamin, mineral, and herb supplements throughout her life, the pregnant animal is physically and mentally prepared

to undertake the rigors of childbirth and motherhood. This is a time when the body should be allowed to work its

natural wonders without interference from introduced stimulation, suppression, or irritation. With this in mind, the

bigger and better question is, What herbs shouldn’t be used in pregnant or lactating animals?

在怀孕和哺乳期间，母亲的身体处于荷尔蒙持续波动的状态。当她的身体经历代谢事件的过山车之旅

时，她的营养需求发生变化，这是任何其他经历都无法比拟的。在这个时期，她的身体必须保持微妙的制

衡，同时应对前所未有的需求。这些时候，动物草药师的积极努力才真正得到回报。怀孕的动物在一生中

接受了良好的自然饮食、健康的生活环境以及支持健康的维生素、矿物质和草药补充剂的补充措施，在身

体和精神上都做好了承担分娩和母亲的严酷准备。在这个时候，身体应该被允许发挥其自然奇迹，而不受

引入的刺激、抑制或刺激的干扰。考虑到这一点，更大更好的问题是，哪些草药不应该用于怀孕或哺乳期

的动物？

=== PAGE 509 ===
HERBS TO AVOID

应避免的草药

Many herbs should not be given to pregnant or lactating animals. Herbs that contain considerable amounts of

volatile oil constituents such as juniper, any of the aromatic mints, and parsley seed should not be used during

pregnancy because the oils are capable of crossing the placenta to the fetus. Volatile oils may also infiltrate a

mother’s milk, so these herbs should be avoided during lactation as well. Herbs that stimulate or suppress hormone

production should also be avoided—these include licorice, wild yam, and yucca root. Herbs that are high in tannin

constituents such as uva ursi, white oak bark, black walnut hulls, and slippery elm may cause uterine contractions

and miscarriage. Herbal laxatives that contain anthraquinone constituents such as senna, cascara sagrada, turkey

rhubarb, and yellow dock should be avoided as well. If your companion becomes constipated during pregnancy, try

lubricating her digestive tract by feeding marshmallow, flaxseed, or psyllium husks. Chickweed can also serve as a

safe and effective laxative in pregnant animals.

许多草药不应该给怀孕或哺乳期的动物服用。怀孕期间不应使用含有大量挥发油成分的草药，例如杜松

子、任何芳香薄荷和欧芹籽，因为这些油能够穿过胎盘到达胎儿。挥发油也可能渗入母乳，因此哺乳期间

也应避免使用这些草药。还应避免刺激或抑制激素产生的草药，包括甘草、野山药和丝兰根。熊果、白橡

树皮、黑胡桃壳和滑榆等富含单宁成分的草药可能会导致子宫收缩和流产。也应避免使用含有蒽醌成分的

草药泻药，如番泻叶、鼠李皮、火鸡大黄和黄坞。如果您的伴侣在怀孕期间出现便秘，请尝试通过喂棉花

糖、亚麻籽或洋车前子壳来润滑她的消化道。繁缕还可以作为怀孕动物安全有效的泻药。

Herbs that contain large percentages of bitter alkaloids such as Oregon grape and goldenseal may have

abortifacient activities and should not be used. Red clover, feverfew, and ginkgo all inhibit platelet aggregation in

the blood and may contribute to excessive hemorrhage during or after birthing.

含有大量苦味生物碱的草药（例如俄勒冈葡萄和白毛茛）可能具有堕胎活性，不应使用。红三叶草、小

白菊和银杏都会抑制血液中的血小板聚集，并可能导致分娩期间或分娩后过度出血。

In summary, if you’re not sure about the safety of an herb during pregnancy, assume that it’s contraindicated and

don’t use it!

总之，如果您不确定怀孕期间某种草药的安全性，请假设它是禁忌的并且不要使用它！

=== PAGE 510 ===
TONIC SUPPORT

滋补支持

Contrary to what many herbalists regard as tradition, we do not use most of the “classic birthing and pregnancy

herbs” (such as blue cohosh) during this fragile time. Instead, our approach is strictly nutritive. Raspberry leaf tea

has been long regarded as an excellent uterine tonic for pregnant humans and animals, but it should not be given

during the first few weeks of pregnancy. Nor should it be fed in large amounts, as there is a small risk that its

astringent activities may trigger abortion in sensitive animals (especially cats). In our opinion, nettle leaf and

spirulina are both better choices as uterine tonics because they contain higher concentrations and broader

assortments of essential and trace minerals and vitamins. This means they can be fed more conservatively, and the

risk (as low as that risk may be) of inducing uterine contractions is thereby reduced.

与许多草药学家所认为的传统相反，在这个脆弱的时期，我们不使用大多数“经典的分娩和怀孕草药”（例

如蓝升麻）。相反，我们的方法是严格营养的。覆盆子叶茶长期以来一直被认为是怀孕人类和动物的极佳

子宫滋补品，但在怀孕的最初几周不宜饮用。也不宜大量喂养，因为其收敛活性可能会导致敏感动物（尤

其是猫）流产。我们认为，荨麻叶和螺旋藻都是子宫滋补品的更好选择，因为它们含有更高浓度和更广泛

的必需微量矿物质和维生素。这意味着可以更保守地喂养它们，从而降低诱发子宫收缩的风险（尽可能

低）。

=== PAGE 511 ===
HERBS AND LACTATION

草药和哺乳期

Healthy animals who receive all necessary elements of nutrition during motherhood should have no problems with

milk production or quality. If a nursing mother is not providing her young with enough milk, it’s probably because

of a nutritional deficiency, hormonal imbalance, or another dysfunction. Fennel seed, borage, dill, and yucca root are

all said to increase milk production in nursing mothers, but these herbs are useful only to healthy animals who need

more milk to feed a big, hungry litter. If your dog or cat has given birth to a small- or average-sized litter and is

having trouble feeding her young, then deeper problems need to be addressed before you start trying to induce milk

production. Forcing a mother’s body to perform beyond its capacity with estrogenic herbs may only worsen an

already serious situation. In many cases, switching an animal from a commercial diet to one that offers a diversity of

whole, raw foods makes a world of difference. Moderate quantities of supplemental vitamins, minerals, probiotics,

and EFAs can be of tremendous help as well because lactation can deplete an animal’s reserve supply of vital

nutrients. In cats, this depletion can cause a life-threatening deficiency of taurine, an amino acid that is critical to the

heart.

在母性期间接受所有必需营养元素的健康动物应该不会出现产奶或质量问题。如果哺乳期的母亲没有为孩

子提供足够的乳汁，可能是因为营养缺乏、荷尔蒙失衡或其他功能障碍。据说茴香籽、琉璃苣、莳萝和丝

兰根都可以增加哺乳期母亲的产奶量，但这些草药只对需要更多牛奶来喂养饥饿的大窝的健康动物有用。

如果您的狗或猫生下了小或中等大小的窝，并且在喂养幼崽时遇到困难，那么在您开始尝试诱导产奶之

前，需要解决更深层次的问题。使用雌激素草药强迫母亲的身体超出其承受能力可能只会使本已严重的情

况变得更糟。在许多情况下，将动物从商业饮食转变为提供多种完整生食的饮食会带来很大的不同。适量

补充维生素、矿物质、益生菌和必需脂肪酸也有很大帮助，因为哺乳期会耗尽动物重要营养素的储备供

应。对于猫来说，这种消耗可能会导致危及生命的牛磺酸缺乏，牛磺酸是一种对心脏至关重要的氨基酸。

=== PAGE 512 ===
RESPIRATORY PROBLEMS

呼吸系统的问题

COUGHING AND SNEEZING: NATURAL HEALING MECHANISMS

咳嗽和打喷嚏：自然治疗机制

Occasional coughing or sneezing is part of a body’s normal health maintenance program. Most animal guardians

know that when dust particles, pollen, or other foreign matter enters the trachea, spasms are triggered to expel the

material from the body. Yet many people try to suppress coughing and sneezing rather than allow the body to do its

job because the conventional Western mind-set dictates that anything that is socially offensive or that causes

discomfort must be suppressed. To tend to an animal’s holistic health needs, we must learn to control our urge to

interfere with the body’s natural functions. Suppressing activities such as sneezing, coughing, and discharging

mucus deprives the body of its natural healing mechanisms and may actually contribute to the underlying disease by

prohibiting expulsion of pathogenic microbes and other foreign substances.

偶尔咳嗽或打喷嚏是身体正常健康维护计划的一部分。大多数动物监护人都知道，当灰尘颗粒、花粉或其

他异物进入气管时，会引发痉挛，将这些物质排出体外。然而，许多人试图抑制咳嗽和打喷嚏，而不是让

身体发挥作用，因为传统的西方思维模式规定，任何具有社会攻击性或引起不适的行为都必须受到抑制。

为了满足动物的整体健康需求，我们必须学会控制干扰身体自然功能的冲动。抑制打喷嚏、咳嗽和排出粘

液等活动会剥夺身体的自然愈合机制，并可能通过阻止病原微生物和其他异物的排出而实际上导致潜在的

疾病。

Instead of suppressing disease symptoms, the holistic healer’s efforts are centered on assisting the body to cleanse

and heal itself. In the respiratory tract, this entails supporting and encouraging the productivity of coughing,

sneezing, and expulsion of mucus. Most animals do not produce mucus as readily as humans do. Therefore, herbs

and other remedies that serve as cough suppressants or discourage expectoration (such as wild cherry bark) should

be reserved for special circumstances, such as when a continuous, unproductive cough has deprived an animal of

sleep for several days. Even then, such remedies should be used in moderation as adjuncts to herbs that support

productive coughing.

整体治疗师的工作重点不是抑制疾病症状，而是帮助身体自我净化和治愈。在呼吸道中，这需要支持和

鼓励咳嗽、打喷嚏和排出粘液的生产力。大多数动物不像人类那样容易产生粘液。因此，草药和其他止咳

药或止咳药（如野樱桃树皮）应保留在特殊情况下使用，例如当连续、无效的咳嗽导致动物数日无法睡眠

时。即便如此，此类疗法也应适量使用，作为有助于有效咳嗽的草药的辅助药物。

Many respiratory ailments can be treated at home with some simple herbal preparations. But if your companion’s

coughing or sneezing continues or worsens, or if you have any doubt whatsoever about its cause, you should have

your friend examined by a holistic vet. A persistent cough can mean minor throat irritation caused by chewing on a

stick, or it can be a symptom of a life-threatening situation such as heartworm, pneumonia, cardiopulmonary

disease, or a serious viral infection.

许多呼吸系统疾病可以在家中通过一些简单的草药制剂进行治疗。但如果你的同伴咳嗽或打喷嚏持续或

恶化，或者如果你对其原因有任何疑问，你应该让你的朋友接受全面的兽医检查。持续咳嗽可能意味着咀

嚼棍子引起轻微的喉咙刺激，也可能是危及生命的情况的症状，如心丝虫、肺炎、心肺疾病或严重的病毒

感染。

=== PAGE 513 ===
ASTHMA

哮喘

Asthma is characterized by a sudden onset of bronchial inflammation and respiratory distress. Animals with severe

asthma may begin an attack by wheezing, sneezing, and coughing, which may quickly progress to obstructed

airways, labored breathing, and a life-threatening crisis. According to most veterinarians, dogs do not suffer from

asthma, but this disease is known to occur frequently in cats and many other animals.

哮喘的特点是突然出现支气管炎症和呼吸窘迫。患有严重哮喘的动物可能会通过喘息、打喷嚏和咳嗽开始

发作，这可能会迅速发展为气道阻塞、呼吸困难和危及生命的危机。大多数兽医认为，狗不会患哮喘，但

这种疾病在猫和许多其他动物中经常发生。

Many people regard asthma as a cause of respiratory distress, but in most cases it’s really only a symptom of a

deeper immune-mediated disorder. Asthma usually occurs as part of a severe allergic reaction. Therefore, holistic

treatment does not focus solely on suppression of asthma attacks but also on proactive correction of the

dysfunctional mechanisms that trigger the attacks. (For more information on long-term holistic treatment, see

“Allergies” in the “Immune System Care” sections of this chapter.)

许多人认为哮喘是呼吸窘迫的原因，但在大多数情况下，它实际上只是更深层次的免疫介导疾病的症

状。哮喘通常是严重过敏反应的一部分。因此，整体治疗不仅仅关注抑制哮喘发作，还关注主动纠正引发

哮喘发作的功能失调机制。 （有关长期整体治疗的更多信息，请参阅本章“免疫系统护理”部分中的“过

敏”。）

Symptomatic herbal treatments for non-life-threatening cases of asthma are essentially the same as those used for

kennel cough and other forms of bronchitis (see below). Lobelia may be useful for suppressing asthma attacks in

cats, especially if a tincture is administered at the first signs of onset. Lobeline, the active constituent of lobelia, is

potentially toxic (it has central nervous system effects similar to those of nicotine), so it should be administered only

under the direction of a holistic veterinarian.

对于非危及生命的哮喘病例的对症草药治疗与用于犬窝咳和其他形式支气管炎的治疗基本相同（见下

文）。半边莲可能有助于抑制猫的哮喘发作，特别是在发病最初迹象时使用酊剂。半边莲的活性成分半边

莲具有潜在毒性（它具有与尼古丁类似的中枢神经系统作用），因此只能在整体兽医的指导下使用。

=== PAGE 514 ===
BRONCHITIS AND KENNEL COUGH

支气管炎和犬窝咳

The term bronchitis refers to inflammation of one or more of the large air passages of the lungs. Causes are variable,

ranging from inhalation of dust and other airborne irritants to viral, bacterial, or fungal infection; tumors; or cancer.

An accumulation of mucus in the bronchi and a deep, rumbling cough are usually associated with bronchitis.

支气管炎一词是指肺部一个或多个大气道的炎症。原因多种多样，从吸入灰尘和其他空气中的刺激物到病

毒、细菌或真菌感染；肿瘤；或癌症。支气管内粘液积聚和深沉的隆隆声咳嗽通常与支气管炎有关。

Bronchitis that is secondary to bacterial, fungal, or viral infection is often accompanied by elevated body

temperature and mucus discharge. If your companion is coughing up fluid, take an unpleasant moment to examine it.

If it’s pink, frothy, blood streaked, or bright yellow, get your companion and a specimen of the discharge to a

veterinarian immediately. Respiratory infections or bleeding progress rapidly and need to be treated aggressively.

继发于细菌、真菌或病毒感染的支气管炎通常伴有体温升高和粘液排出。如果你的同伴咳出液体，请花

点不愉快的时间检查一下。如果分泌物呈粉红色、泡沫状、血丝或亮黄色，请立即带你的同伴和分泌物样

本去看兽医。呼吸道感染或出血进展迅速，需要积极治疗。

Kennel cough is a generic term for a dry, hacking cough that occurs in dogs and sometimes cats. It is caused by

viral (such as canine adenovirus II, parainfluenza) or bacterial infection (such as Bordetella bronchiseptica) and is

generally self-limiting in that it rarely progresses beyond minor inflammation of the trachea. No discharge, fever,

respiratory edema, or other symptoms are associated with kennel cough—just coughing. This is an important point

to remember because if your animal is exhibiting symptoms in addition to a hacking cough, you may be facing a

condition more serious than kennel cough.

犬窝咳是发生在狗（有时是猫）身上的干咳的通用术语。它是由病毒（例如犬腺病毒 II、副流感）或细

菌感染（例如支气管败血博德特氏菌）引起的，并且通常具有自限性，因为它很少会发展到气管的轻微炎

症之外。没有分泌物、发烧、呼吸道水肿或其他与犬窝咳相关的症状——只是咳嗽。这是需要记住的重要

一点，因为如果您的动物除了干咳之外还表现出其他症状，那么您可能面临比犬窝咳更严重的病症。

Elecampane can decrease the symptoms and shorten the duration of bronchitis and kennel cough.

=== PAGE 515 ===
土木香可以减轻支气管炎和犬窝咳的症状并缩短持续时间。

Once diagnosed, kennel cough and most other types of bronchitis can be treated safely at home. If other animals

in the home are susceptible to infection, take preventive measures to keep them healthy. We administer immune-

supportive herbs to our animals before, during, and after suspected exposure to infectious bronchitis. Dietary

supplementation of fresh chopped garlic is a good preventive measure because garlic has excellent immunotonic

qualities and antibacterial and antiviral principles that are exhaled through the lungs. Astragalus or organically

grown echinacea are also well suited for boosting your companion’s immune system against kennel cough before or

during an infection. Eucalyptus essential oil can be placed into a vaporizer with some water and left within a few

feet of your companion’s resting quarters. (Don’t use this method in conjunction with a homeopathic prescription, as

it may antidote the remedy.) The vapor helps open the animal’s respiratory passages and provides a continuous

measure of antimicrobial intervention.

一旦确诊，犬窝咳和大多数其他类型的支气管炎都可以在家中安全治疗。如果家中其他动物容易受到感

染，请采取预防措施以保持它们的健康。在怀疑接触传染性支气管炎之前、期间和之后，我们给动物服用

免疫支持草药。膳食补充新鲜切碎的大蒜是一种很好的预防措施，因为大蒜具有优良的免疫功能以及通过

肺部呼出的抗菌和抗病毒原理。黄芪或有机种植的紫锥菊也非常适合在感染前或感染期间增强您同伴的免

疫系统，抵抗犬舍咳嗽。可以将桉树精油与一些水一起放入蒸发器中，并放在距离同伴休息处几英尺的地

方。 （不要将这种方法与顺势疗法处方结合使用，因为它可能会解毒。）蒸汽有助于打开动物的呼吸道，

并提供持续的抗菌干预措施。

AN HERBAL FORMULA FOR ASTHMA, KENNEL COUGH, AND

BRONCHITIS WITH DRY COUGH
6

治疗哮喘、犬窝咳和支气管炎伴干咳的草药配方
6

Combine the following low-alcohol (glycerin) tinctures:

混合以下低酒精（甘油）酊剂：

1 part coltsfoot

1 份款冬

1 part grindelia or elecampane

1 份 木香或土木香

1 part mullein leaf

1 份 毛蕊花叶

1 part yarrow

1 份 西洋蓍草

1 part marshmallow

1 份 棉花糖

This combination can be added to a small amount of honey and fed to dogs or cats two or three times daily

until the illness has run its course. An appropriate dose is 0.25–0.5 milliliters for each 20 pounds of the

animal’s body weight. Additionally, a twice-daily dose of echinacea or astragalus is recommended for

immune support. If the coughing is associated with nervousness or hyperexcitability, bugleweed, skullcap,

valerian, hop, or a small measure of wild cherry bark can be added to the twice-daily regimen.

可以将这种混合物添加到少量蜂蜜中，每天喂狗或猫两次或三次，直到疾病痊愈。适当的剂量是每

20 磅动物体重 0.25-0.5 毫升。此外，建议每天两次服用紫锥菊或黄芪来支持免疫。如果咳嗽与紧张

或过度兴奋有关，可以在每日两次的治疗方案中添加牛舌草、黄芩、缬草、啤酒花或少量野樱桃树

=== PAGE 516 ===
皮。

Coltsfoot, grindelia, mullein leaf, and elecampane offer antiviral, antibacterial, expectorant, and antispasmodic

qualities that can help shorten the duration of your companion’s ailment. Yarrow is also strongly antimicrobial and

helps increase pulmonary efficiency by dilating blood vessels of the lungs. Slippery elm, plantain, and marshmallow

each lend soothing relief to sore and inflamed membranes of the trachea and bronchi. Goldenrod is especially

helpful in cases in which bronchial inflammation is yielding excessive mucus that the body cannot effectively expel

(e.g., bronchial pneumonia).

款冬、银杏、毛蕊花和土木香具有抗病毒、抗菌、祛痰和抗痉挛的功效，有助于缩短伴侣的疾病持续时

间。西洋蓍草还具有很强的抗菌作用，可以通过扩张肺部血管来帮助提高肺部效率。滑榆、大蕉和棉花糖

都能舒缓气管和支气管的疼痛和发炎的膜。在支气管炎症产生过多粘液而身体无法有效排出的情况下（例

如支气管肺炎），黄花特别有帮助。

AN HERBAL FORMULA FOR WET COUGHS

治疗湿咳的草药配方

1 part coltsfoot

1 份款冬

1 part goldenrod

1 份 一枝黄花

1 part yarrow

1 份 西洋蓍草

If your companion’s cough involves copious amounts of thick, hard-toexpel mucus, this formula serves to

reduce inflammation of mucous membranes, reduce and thin mucous secretions in the bronchi, and help to

make the cough less violent and more productive.

如果您同伴的咳嗽涉及大量粘稠、难以排出的粘液，此配方可以减轻粘膜炎症，减少和稀释支气管

中的粘液分泌物，并有助于减轻咳嗽的剧烈程度并提高咳嗽效率。

This formula can be added to a small amount of honey and fed to dogs or cats two or three times daily until

the illness has run its course. An appropriate dose is 0.25–0.5 milliliters for each 20 pounds of the animal’s

body weight.

可以将此配方加入少量蜂蜜中，每天喂狗或猫两次或三次，直至疾病痊愈。适当的剂量是每 20 磅动

物体重 0.25-0.5 毫升。

=== PAGE 517 ===
PNEUMONIA AND PULMONARY EDEMA

肺炎和肺水肿

Pneumonia is a condition in which lung volume and pulmonary efficiency is reduced by the presence of fluid

(edema) or a solid mass (tumor). Pneumonia can originate from bacterial, viral, fungal, or protozoan infection;

allergy; cancer; injury, or systemic dysfunction. Pneumonia is a life-threatening situation that can be progressive.

Treatment varies according to the cause and symptoms.

肺炎是一种因液体（水肿）或固体肿块（肿瘤）的存在而导致肺容量和肺效率降低的疾病。肺炎可由细

菌、病毒、真菌或原虫感染引起；过敏;癌症;损伤或全身功能障碍。肺炎是一种危及生命的疾病，并且可能

呈进展性。治疗方法根据病因和症状而有所不同。

The term pulmonary edema refers to the presence of fluid in the lungs. With few exceptions (such as drowning),

pulmonary edema is secondary to other disorders, such as congestive heart failure, inhalation of toxic chemicals, or

damage of lung tissues.

术语“肺水肿”是指肺部存在液体。除了少数例外（例如溺水），肺水肿继发于其他疾病，例如充血性心

力衰竭、吸入有毒化学物质或肺组织损伤。

A TONIC FORMULA FOR ANIMALS WITH PNEUMONIA

肺炎动物的滋补配方

Combine the following glycerin-based herb tinctures:

结合以下基于甘油的草药酊剂：

2 parts echinacea

2 份 紫锥菊

1 part astragalus

1份黄芪

1 part coltsfoot

1 份款冬

1 part yarrow

1 份 西洋蓍草

This formula can be added to dandelion leaf tea and fed two or three times daily until the disease has run its

course. The dose for dogs, cats, and other small animals is 0.25–0.5 milliliters for each 20 pounds of the

animal’s body weight. Horses and other large herbivores can receive 20–30 milliliters.

此方可加蒲公英叶茶中，每日服二至三次，直至病愈。狗、猫和其他小动物的剂量为每 20 磅动物体

重 0.25-0.5 毫升。马和其他大型食草动物可以吸收 20-30 毫升。

In cases of pneumonia or pulmonary edema, pulmonary (lung) efficiency is reduced so the blood does not receive

the oxygen it needs to supply tissues throughout the body. In other words, the body progressively suffocates as the

condition worsens. Symptoms at onset include reduced physical stamina; coughing, panting, or gasping for air; and

diminished mental capacity. As the situation worsens, the tongue and mucous membranes of the eyes begin to turn

blue from lack of oxygen, the animal becomes weak and lethargic, and the brain and other vital organs begin to die.

Even if you have only a hunch that your animal may have pneumonia or a condition involving pulmonary edema,

the first course of action is to consult a veterinarian immediately to rule out the possibility of a life-threatening

=== PAGE 518 ===
situation. Don’t hesitate. Pneumonia can be aggressive in animals, especially those who are aging or weakened by

chronic illness.

在肺炎或肺水肿的情况下，肺的效率会降低，因此血液无法获得供应全身组织所需的氧气。换句话说，

随着病情恶化，身体逐渐窒息。发病时的症状包括体力下降；咳嗽、气喘或喘气；以及智力下降。随着情

况恶化，舌头和眼睛粘膜开始因缺氧而变蓝，动物变得虚弱、昏昏欲睡，大脑和其他重要器官开始死亡。

即使您只是预感您的动物可能患有肺炎或涉及肺水肿的疾病，首要行动也是立即咨询兽医，以排除危及生

命情况的可能性。不要犹豫。肺炎对动物具有侵袭性，尤其是那些因慢性疾病而衰老或虚弱的动物。

Conventional approaches usually involve the use of furosemide or other strong diuretics to help move fluid out of

the lungs, as well as antibiotic therapies directed toward any bacteria or fungi that might be involved.

传统方法通常涉及使用呋塞米或其他强利尿剂来帮助将液体排出肺部，以及针对可能涉及的任何细菌或

真菌进行抗生素治疗。

Once the nature of the problem has been identified and the animal’s condition has stabilized, herbs can be used to

strengthen the immune system and support the body in its efforts to regain well-being. Large doses of a strong, dark

dandelion leaf tea (as much as you can get the animal to drink) serves as a strong diuretic to help with the

elimination of fluid from the lungs. If the animal won’t drink the tea, use a salt-free meat or vegetable broth instead

of hot water or sweeten the tea with honey. Unlike the aforementioned furosemide, dandelion helps replace

potassium and other nutrients that are usually lost through increased urination.

一旦确定了问题的本质并且动物的状况稳定下来，就可以使用草药来增强免疫系统并支持身体努力恢复

健康。大剂量的浓浓深色蒲公英叶茶（尽可能多地让动物喝下）可以作为强效利尿剂，帮助排出肺部的液

体。如果动物不喝茶，请使用无盐肉汤或蔬菜汤代替热水，或用蜂蜜使茶变甜。与前面提到的速尿不同，

蒲公英有助于补充钾和其他通常因排尿增加而流失的营养物质。

Dandelion leaf tea should be fed continuously. Provide as much as the animal will take throughout the therapy.

Echinacea and garlic can be used to boost your companion’s immune system, and astragalus or Siberian ginseng

may increase his body’s ability to function under the added stress. Coltsfoot and elecampane are both good choices

for stimulating respiratory function, inhibiting bacterial reproduction, and helping with the elimination of mucus

from the bronchi. Inhalation therapy using a vaporizer and eucalyptus oil (as mentioned for bronchitis) can also

bring relief. Yarrow and cayenne can both increase pulmonary circulation and increase oxygen delivery to the blood.

Used in combination with the diuretic qualities of dandelion leaf, these two herbs may be especially useful for

racehorses who suffer acute respiratory bleeding and pulmonary edema as a result of strenuous exercise. Cayenne

can also be used as part of this program as a respiratory stimulant and to assist the activities of the other herbs—one

small gel cap daily for dogs and cats and five to ten large gel caps daily for horses.

蒲公英叶茶应连续喂食。在整个治疗过程中提供动物所需的量。紫锥菊和大蒜可以用来增强你同伴的免

疫系统，黄芪或西伯利亚人参可以增强他的身体在额外压力下的运作能力。款冬和土木香都是刺激呼吸功

能、抑制细菌繁殖和帮助清除支气管粘液的不错选择。使用汽化器和桉树油的吸入疗法（如针对支气管炎

所述）也可以缓解症状。西洋蓍草和辣椒都可以增加肺循环并增加血液中的氧气输送。与蒲公英叶的利尿

特性结合使用，这两种草药可能对因剧烈运动而遭受急性呼吸道出血和肺水肿的赛马特别有用。辣椒还可

以作为该计划的一部分，作为呼吸兴奋剂，并辅助其他草药的活动——狗和猫每天服用一个小凝胶帽，马

每天服用五到十个大凝胶帽。

In animals who are suffering pulmonary edema secondary to congestive heart failure or other cardiopulmonary

problems, hawthorn, ginkgo, or bugleweed may be indicated. Other herbs worth considering in a wide variety of

respiratory problems include horehound (excellent, but hard to administer because of its bitterness), thyme,

rosemary, and lovage.

对于因充血性心力衰竭或其他心肺问题继发肺水肿的动物，可能需要使用山楂、银杏或牛草。其他值得

考虑用于治疗各种呼吸系统疾病的草药包括苦海草（效果很好，但由于其苦味而难以服用）、百里香、迷

迭香和独活草。

=== PAGE 519 ===
SKIN PROBLEMS

皮肤问题

Skin is something we tend to take for granted. After all, we see it all the time. It covers our dogs, cats, horses, birds,

and our own bodies. And unlike treatments for a diseased organ that is hidden deep and mysteriously within the

body, our approaches to skin disorders are often as shallow as we perceive the skin itself to be.

皮肤是我们往往认为理所当然的东西。毕竟，我们一直都看到它。它涵盖了我们的狗、猫、马、鸟和我们

自己的身体。与对隐藏在身体深处而神秘的患病器官的治疗不同，我们对皮肤疾病的治疗方法往往与我们

对皮肤本身的感知一样肤浅。

The skin regulates body temperature as well as peripheral blood and lymph circulation and provides frontline

protection from harmful influences that exist outside the body. The skin also helps with the elimination of systemic

wastes that are not effectively eliminated through the urinary and digestive tracts. Therefore, what might appear to

be nothing more than a superficial annoyance such as a skin disorder might indicate a serious underlying disease.

Animals don’t complain as much as people do and are unable to express the discomforts of a deep-seated disease.

That means the causes of a chronic skin problem may go unnoticed until they progress to a point where an animal is

noticeably suffering from a condition such as arthritis, liver disease, kidney failure, or even cancer. Compounding

the problem is the difficulty of accurately identifying the underlying causes of many skin-related disorders—the list

of possible causes is almost unlimited. As a result, many conventional therapies amount to nothing more than relief

of surface symptoms.

皮肤调节体温以及外周血液和淋巴循环，并提供一线保护，免受体外存在的有害影响。皮肤还有助于消

除无法通过泌尿道和消化道有效消除的全身废物。因此，看似表面上的烦恼（例如皮肤病）可能表明存在

严重的潜在疾病。动物不像人类那样抱怨，也无法表达深层次疾病的不适。这意味着慢性皮肤问题的原因

可能会被忽视，直到它们发展到动物明显患有关节炎、肝病、肾衰竭甚至癌症等疾病的程度。使问题更加

复杂的是，准确识别许多皮肤相关疾病的根本原因非常困难——可能的原因几乎是无限的。因此，许多传

统疗法只不过是缓解表面症状。

In conventional veterinary medicine, skin problems are most often treated as conditions occurring on the outside

of the body, and a common course of therapy typically involves topical creams, salves, rinses, or shampoos. When

these external measures fail, corticosteroids, antihistamines, or other drugs are usually prescribed to depress the

immune system and thereby squelch the uncomfortable symptoms. While this approach to skin disease can ease an

animal’s discomfort quickly or even make the disease appear to go away, the underlying causes of the disease may

never be considered, much less acted upon. As a result, they may progress to other, more serious problems. In

human dermatology, eczema or psoriasis present excellent examples. Both are viewed by Western medicine as

symptomatic manifestations of various systemic or external causes such as hormonal imbalances; systemic

dysfunction; or viral, fungal, or bacterial infection; but the reasons the body allows such problems to occur remain

largely unknown. In the absence of curative answers, only the symptoms are addressed.

在传统兽医学中，皮肤问题通常被视为发生在身体外部的病症，常见的治疗过程通常包括外用乳膏、药

膏、冲洗液或洗发水。当这些外部措施失败时，通常会开出皮质类固醇、抗组胺药或其他药物来抑制免疫

系统，从而抑制不适症状。虽然这种治疗皮肤病的方法可以快速缓解动物的不适，甚至使疾病看起来消

失，但人们可能永远不会考虑疾病的根本原因，更不用说采取行动了。结果，他们可能会发展到其他更严

重的问题。在人类皮肤病学中，湿疹或牛皮癣就是很好的例子。西医认为两者都是各种全身或外部原因

（例如荷尔蒙失衡）的症状表现。全身功能障碍；或病毒、真菌或细菌感染；但身体允许此类问题发生的

原因仍然很大程度上未知。在没有治愈答案的情况下，只能解决症状。

The principles of holistic herbal medicine do not allow healers to employ solutions that address only the surface

manifestations of disease. While it’s true that finding a cure for chronic skin disorders is as difficult for holistic

healers as it is for conventional research scientists, we are gifted with a special weapon: a holistic perspective that

enables us to help the body find a cure for itself. The holistic herbal approach to skin disease reaches beyond

symptoms to accept the fact that the body has mysterious but powerful abilities to heal itself. Fully understanding

=== PAGE 520 ===
these abilities is not absolutely necessary. The function of the herbalist is not to substitute the body’s natural

methods of treating disease with new methods but to assist the body in healing itself naturally. This applies to all

forms of skin disease. Whether the problem is a contact dermatitis that can be quickly relieved with an application of

herbal salve or a more complex condition that emanates from within the body to create chronic seborrhea, the

approach is to assist the body’s efforts to heal while trying to identify and address the underlying causes.

整体草药的原则不允许治疗者采用仅解决疾病表面表现的解决方案。虽然寻找慢性皮肤病的治疗方法对

于整体治疗师来说确实和传统研究科学家一样困难，但我们拥有一种特殊的武器：整体视角，使我们能够

帮助身体找到自身的治疗方法。治疗皮肤病的整体草药方法超越了症状，接受了这样一个事实：身体具有

神秘而强大的自愈能力。完全理解这些能力并不是绝对必要的。草药师的作用不是用新方法取代身体治疗

疾病的自然方法，而是帮助身体自然愈合。这适用于所有形式的皮肤病。无论问题是可以通过使用草药膏

快速缓解的接触性皮炎，还是来自体内产生慢性皮脂溢的更复杂的病症，方法都是协助身体治愈，同时尝

试识别和解决根本原因。

Writing comprehensively on herbal approaches to animal skin problems would entail writing an entire book—

perhaps even multiple volumes. So instead we present some generalized herbal treatments with strong emphases on

the holistic principles by which they are most effectively applied, for a few of the most common skin problems in

companion animals.

全面撰写有关动物皮肤问题的草药方法的文章需要写一整本书，甚至可能是多卷。因此，我们提出了一

些通用的草药疗法，重点强调最有效地应用它们的整体原则，以解决伴侣动物中一些最常见的皮肤问题。

=== PAGE 521 ===
SKIN PROBLEMS OF INTERNAL ORIGIN

内部根源的皮肤问题

Chronic, or recurring, skin conditions that cannot be attributed to elements outside the body usually indicate

systemic disease. Generally speaking, if an animal’s body system cannot effectively eliminate waste or if foreign

bodies or toxins cannot be effectively dealt with by a strong immune system, the body tries to push the problem

outward, away from the vital organs. When the body resorts to such measures, it is usually because one or more of

the organs or body systems that monitor and respond to foreign bodies and systemic waste have somehow become

dysfunctional. The liver, kidneys, and immune and lymph systems become overburdened, the skin is asked to take

actions it cannot take, and a “skin problem” erupts in the form of an oily, flaky coat; irritated, itchy skin;

subcutaneous cysts; excessive hair loss; pus-filled eruptions, and so forth.

不能归因于体外因素的慢性或复发性皮肤病通常表明存在全身性疾病。一般来说，如果动物的身体系统不

能有效地排除废物，或者如果强大的免疫系统不能有效地处理异物或毒素，身体就会试图将问题向外推，

远离重要器官。当身体采取此类措施时，通常是因为监测和响应异物和全身废物的一个或多个器官或身体

系统以某种方式变得功能失调。肝脏、肾脏、免疫和淋巴系统负担过重，皮肤被要求采取它无法采取的行

动，“皮肤问题”就会以油性、片状皮毛的形式出现；皮肤发炎、发痒；皮下囊肿；脱发过多；充满脓液的

皮疹等。

Treating skin conditions that are secondary to systemic disorders is difficult. Persistent skin conditions such as

seborrhea (dry or greasy, flaky or scaly skin) or pyoderma (pus-filled eruptions) may be attributable to any number

of deep-seated factors, including dietary deficiencies, food or environmental allergies, immune system disease, or a

microbial infection that may or may not be evident upon analysis of the skin itself. In such cases, the entire system

must be evaluated, systemic deficiencies must be identified and corrected, and the search for direct causes must

continue throughout the therapy, even if the symptoms are under control. The golden rule to remember is this: The

outward symptoms of many types of chronic skin disease represent only a small part of the holistic picture. We

cannot expect to find curative solutions unless we focus our efforts beyond the symptoms to identify and address the

underlying causes. This rule applies to all forms of skin disease, from an allergic response to fleabites to chronic hair

loss.

治疗继发于全身性疾病的皮肤病很困难。持续性皮肤病，如皮脂溢（干燥或油腻、片状或鳞状皮肤）或

脓皮病（充满脓液的皮疹）可能归因于多种深层次因素，包括饮食不足、食物或环境过敏、免疫系统疾病

或通过对皮肤本身的分析可能会或可能不会明显的微生物感染。在这种情况下，必须评估整个系统，必须

识别和纠正系统性缺陷，并且即使症状得到控制，也必须在整个治疗过程中继续寻找直接原因。要记住的

黄金法则是：许多类型的慢性皮肤病的外在症状仅代表整体情况的一小部分。除非我们将精力集中在症状

之外，找出并解决根本原因，否则我们不能指望找到治愈的解决方案。这条规则适用于所有形式的皮肤

病，从对跳蚤的过敏反应到慢性脱发。

=== PAGE 522 ===
SKIN PROBLEMS OF EXTERNAL ORIGIN

外源性皮肤问题

Skin problems that are triggered from outside the body are often, but not always, easier to identify and quicker to

correct than those that emanate from within. For example, the cause of recurrent urticaria (an inflammation of the

skin surface characterized by small, itching welts) may be quickly identified and eliminated when it is discovered

that Rover has been sleeping in a patch of stinging nettles growing along the backyard fence. In this case, the

holistic approach might be to neutralize the stinging acids with a dandelion flower or nettle tea rinse. A problem

such as dermatophytosis, or ringworm, a parasitic fungal infection of the skin in dogs, cats, horses, and many other

animals (including humans), presents the holistic caregiver with a more complex scenario. Ringworm is passed

directly from an infected environment to the animal host. And like most parasites, including fleas and various skin-

burrowing mites (sarcoptic mange, barn itch, demodectic mange, to name a few), ringworm is more likely to infect

diseased or immuno-compromised animals than those with healthy disease resistance. Therefore, to holistically treat

an animal suffering from ringworm, we must take the animal’s environment and his general state of health into

consideration. Ringworm can be largely prevented by keeping the living environment clean, but infection must also

be discouraged by maintaining the health of the potential host.

由体外引发的皮肤问题通常（但并非总是）比由体内引发的皮肤问题更容易识别且更快速地纠正。例如，

当发现罗弗睡在沿着后院栅栏生长的荨麻丛中时，可以快速识别和消除复发性荨麻疹（一种以小而发痒的

伤痕为特征的皮肤表面炎症）的原因。在这种情况下，整体方法可能是用蒲公英花或荨麻茶冲洗液来中和

刺痛的酸。皮肤癣菌病或癣（一种狗、猫、马和许多其他动物（包括人类）皮肤的寄生真菌感染）等问题

给整体护理人员带来了更复杂的情况。癣从受感染的环境直接传播给动物宿主。与大多数寄生虫一样，包

括跳蚤和各种皮肤穴居螨（疥癣、谷仓痒、蠕形螨等），癣更有可能感染患病或免疫功能低下的动物，而

不是那些具有健康抗病能力的动物。因此，要对患有癣的动物进行整体治疗，我们必须考虑动物的环境和

总体健康状况。保持生活环境清洁可以在很大程度上预防癣，但也必须通过保持潜在宿主的健康来阻止感

染。

This brings us right back to our main point: Before other causative factors can be addressed, the overall health of

the individual must be fully evaluated and supported.

这让我们回到了要点：在解决其他致病因素之前，必须充分评估和支持个人的整体健康状况。

=== PAGE 523 ===
HOLISTIC APPROACHES

整体方法

It’s important to keep in mind that herbs alone are seldom curative solutions to chronic forms of disease. In holistic

medicine, most skin problems are viewed as indicators of systemic dysfunction within the body. Rather than

working in ways that exclude natural body functions (as many drugs do) to suppress the symptoms of disease, herbs

serve best as functional adjuncts to a variety of other corrective measures. Nutrition; the animal’s age; his physical,

psychological, and neurological conditions; genetic predispositions characteristic to his breed; and the quality of his

living environment must be taken into account as equal parts of a holistic health picture.

重要的是要记住，仅用草药很少能治愈慢性疾病。在整体医学中，大多数皮肤问题被视为体内系统功能障

碍的指标。草药不像许多药物那样通过排除自然身体功能来抑制疾病症状，而是最好作为各种其他纠正措

施的功能性辅助剂。营养;动物的年龄；他的身体、心理和神经状况；其品种特有的遗传倾向；他的生活环

境质量必须作为整体健康状况的同等组成部分予以考虑。

Feeding the Skin

滋养皮肤

Your effectiveness at treating conditions such as flaky skin and a dull coat is gauged by how deeply you are willing

to look into your animal’s whole body, lifestyle, and environment. To begin the healing process, some careful

measures must be taken to assure that the skin is properly fed. Start with a critical assessment of your companion’s

diet, looking not just at the diversity and types of food ingredients but at the quality of each ingredient as well. The

skin is an organ that must continually regenerate itself to survive the constant effects of aging and bombardment

from environmental elements. To do so it must receive a unique array of special nutrients and nutritional adjuncts,

many of which will not be found in a typical commercial diet. At the top of this special-requirement list are

antioxidant vitamins (A, C, and E), minerals, proteins, and especially EFAs, which can be administered to an animal

through supplementing his diet.

您治疗皮肤剥落和皮毛暗淡等状况的有效性取决于您愿意深入了解动物的整个身体、生活方式和环境。为

了开始愈合过程，必须采取一些仔细的措施以确保皮肤得到适当的滋养。首先对您同伴的饮食进行严格评

估，不仅关注食物成分的多样性和类型，还要关注每种成分的质量。皮肤是一个必须不断自我再生的器

官，才能承受衰老和环境因素的持续轰击。为此，它必须获得一系列独特的特殊营养素和营养辅助剂，其

中许多在典型的商业饮食中是找不到的。这份特殊需求清单中的首要内容是抗氧化维生素（A、C 和 E）、

矿物质、蛋白质，尤其是必需脂肪酸（EFA），这些物质可以通过补充动物的饮食来补充。

Essential fatty acid supplements might include flaxseed powder or oil, fish oil, or wheat germ oil. Vitamins A, C,

and E are needed for their regenerative and antioxidant effects, and digestive enzymes are also required. In terms of

herbs, horsetail and gotu kola may help regenerate and strengthen skin structure; and nutritive herbs such as

spirulina, nettle, alfalfa, and red clover can provide trace minerals and antioxidant vitamins. Fresh burdock root is

available at many health food stores and can be grated (raw) directly into your animal’s food. Burdock is considered

a specific alterative for chronic skin problems. It is safe and nutritious and gently supports an animal’s liver and

gallbladder. Feed your animal as much as he likes.

必需脂肪酸补充剂可能包括亚麻籽粉或油、鱼油或小麦胚芽油。维生素 A、C 和 E 是其再生和抗氧化作

用所必需的，还需要消化酶。在草药方面，木贼和雷公根可能有助于再生和强化皮肤结构；螺旋藻、荨

麻、苜蓿和红三叶草等营养草本植物可以提供微量矿物质和抗氧化维生素。新鲜的牛蒡根在许多保健食品

商店都有售，并且可以直接磨碎（生）到动物的食物中。牛蒡被认为是治疗慢性皮肤问题的特定替代品。

它安全且营养丰富，温和地支持动物的肝脏和胆囊。尽可能多地喂养你的动物。

The quality of protein you are feeding also plays a vital role here—low-grade proteins (such as soy-based fillers

and most meat by-products) are difficult for animals to metabolize, and instead of being received as nutritive

protein, they are treated as hard-to-eliminate wastes. By feeding your animal a diversity of high-quality, fresh foods

=== PAGE 524 ===
and the proper nutritional supplements, you are equipping him with the components he needs to maintain healthy

skin. Without the proper nutritional components, the skin becomes weak and vulnerable to the effects of the

environment, its related body functions become compromised, and the entire system falls out of holistic balance.

您所饲喂的蛋白质的质量在这里也起着至关重要的作用 - 低级蛋白质（例如大豆填料和大多数肉类副产

品）对于动物来说很难代谢，并且它们不是作为营养蛋白质被接受，而是被视为难以消除的废物。通过给

您的动物喂食各种优质、新鲜的食物和适当的营养补充剂，您可以为它提供保持皮肤健康所需的成分。如

果没有适当的营养成分，皮肤就会变得脆弱，容易受到环境的影响，其相关的身体功能会受到损害，整个

系统会失去整体平衡。

Piecing Together a Puzzle

拼凑拼图

Once you are sure that your companion is getting the nutritional components needed for healthy skin and coat,

consider the potential sources of any chronic problem. Does your animal have a food allergy? This can often be

determined by removing food ingredients from the diet one at a time. For a dog or cat, start by changing the type of

meat your animal is eating—especially if he is eating beef or a food that is made from mostly one type of meat.

Next, try weeding out grains and yeast one at a time. Start by eliminating soy, then try wheat, then yeast.

一旦您确定您的伴侣获得了健康皮肤和皮毛所需的营养成分，请考虑任何慢性问题的潜在根源。您的动物

有食物过敏吗？这通常可以通过一次从饮食中去除一种食物成分来确定。对于狗或猫，首先要改变动物吃

的肉的类型，尤其是当他吃牛肉或主要由一种肉制成的食物时。接下来，尝试一次清除一种谷物和酵母。

首先消除大豆，然后尝试小麦，然后是酵母。

While you are ruling out food allergies, also consider anything else that may be compromising your companion’s

immune system. It is the immune system’s job to react to invading microbes or harmful substances. If the system is

compromised and cannot react correctly or effectively, it may overreact, causing an allergic response.

在排除食物过敏的同时，还要考虑任何可能损害伴侣免疫系统的其他因素。免疫系统的工作是对入侵的

微生物或有害物质做出反应。如果系统受到损害并且无法正确或有效地做出反应，则可能会反应过度，导

致过敏反应。

Is your companion hypersensitive to fleabites? Is the animal subjected to frequent vaccinations (a major cause of

many skin and immune system problems, in our opinion), protracted antibiotic therapies, or any environmental

toxins that may be depressing or stimulating immune functions? Find out the answers. Any of these factors may

contribute to a chronic skin problem.

您的同伴对跳蚤过敏吗？动物是否经常接种疫苗（我们认为这是许多皮肤和免疫系统问题的主要原

因）、长期抗生素治疗或任何可能抑制或刺激免疫功能的环境毒素？找出答案。这些因素中的任何一个都

可能导致慢性皮肤问题。

After you have an idea of what might be entering your companion’s body to trigger the problem, then start

looking for telltale signs of which organs or body systems might be affected. Is your animal friend suffering from

constipation or diarrhea, and does his skin, coat, or breath smell bad? If so, the digestive system and liver probably

need herbal support. Is the urine concentrated and strong smelling, or does it have blood in it? Are urinary infections

or stones a problem? In these cases, you need to optimize urinary efficiency and perhaps relieve inflammation in the

urinary tract and kidneys.

当您了解什么可能进入伴侣的身体并引发问题后，请开始寻找哪些器官或身体系统可能受到影响的迹

象。你的动物朋友是否患有便秘或腹泻，他的皮肤、皮毛或呼吸有异味吗？如果是这样，消化系统和肝脏

可能需要草药支持。尿液是否浓稠且气味浓烈，或者是否有血液？尿路感染或结石是问题吗？在这些情况

下，您需要优化排尿效率，或许还需要缓解泌尿道和肾脏的炎症。

It’s impossible to ask yourself too many questions when looking for clues to the causes of a chronic skin problem.

Just remember to conduct your investigation throughout the body, focusing on the organs and systems responsible

for elimination of waste: the liver, kidneys, gallbladder, stomach and intestines, immune system, and lymph system.

If you’re having problems doing this yourself, ask your holistic vet for help.

=== PAGE 525 ===
在寻找慢性皮肤问题原因的线索时，不可能问自己太多问题。请记住对整个身体进行检查，重点关注负

责消除废物的器官和系统：肝脏、肾脏、胆囊、胃和肠、免疫系统和淋巴系统。如果您自己执行此操作时

遇到问题，请向您的整体兽医寻求帮助。

=== PAGE 526 ===
HERBAL THERAPIES

草药疗法

Since most forms of skin disease are related to poor elimination of systemic waste or immune system deficiency, a

great deal can be accomplished by supporting the liver, kidneys, lymphatic system, immune system, and digestive

functions with herbs. You should begin tonic herbal therapy while you are trying to pinpoint the actual causes of

disease. Using tonic herbs to gently support the body’s cleansing systems helps the body to heal itself. Oftentimes,

tonic alterative herbs change the course of systemic dysfunction, and the body regains its ability to deal with

whatever was triggering the skin problem. In these cases, the animal’s body finds its own cure, even though you

never identify a cause.

由于大多数形式的皮肤病都与全身废物清除不良或免疫系统缺陷有关，因此通过草药支持肝脏、肾脏、淋

巴系统、免疫系统和消化功能可以起到很大作用。当您试图查明疾病的真正原因时，您应该开始滋补草药

疗法。使用滋补草药温和地支持身体的清洁系统，有助于身体自我治愈。通常，补品替代草药可以改变全

身功能障碍的进程，使身体恢复处理引发皮肤问题的能力。在这些情况下，即使你从未找出原因，动物的

身体也会找到自己的治疗方法。

The herbs of choice for treating skin problems are stimulatory tonics and alternatives that can be used safely over

a long period as daily dietary supplements. Burdock has long been regarded as a specific alterative for treating

chronic forms of dermatitis. Cleavers improves lymph circulation, thus helping to remove waste and toxins from

body tissues. It is also a diuretic and is mildly astringent, so it reduces inflammation that may exist in the urinary

tract while encouraging elimination. Dandelion (root and leaf) is diuretic and nutritive and serves as a safe and

reliable liver stimulant. It increases bile production and gently stimulates the gallbladder and the kidneys to help

improve digestion and aid in the elimination of both solid and urine-carried wastes. Red clover helps burdock work

and adds antioxidant and immune supportive qualities to a broad spectrum of vitamins and minerals. It is generally

considered to be a blood purifier because it helps improve blood structure, which in turn allows for better transport

of waste products and toxins from the body. Garlic offers immune system support, liver support, antimicrobial

activities, and antioxidant properties. All these herbs are ingredients in the following formula for skin problems.

治疗皮肤问题所选择的草药是刺激性滋补品和替代品，可以作为日常膳食补充剂长期安全使用。牛蒡长

期以来一直被认为是治疗慢性皮炎的特殊替代品。切肉刀可以改善淋巴循环，从而有助于清除身体组织中

的废物和毒素。它也是一种利尿剂，具有轻微的收敛作用，因此它可以减少泌尿道中可能存在的炎症，同

时促进消除。蒲公英（根和叶）利尿且营养丰富，是一种安全可靠的肝脏兴奋剂。它增加胆汁的产生并温

和地刺激胆囊和肾脏，以帮助改善消化并帮助消除固体和尿液携带的废物。红三叶草有助于牛蒡发挥功

效，并为多种维生素和矿物质添加抗氧化和免疫支持特性。它通常被认为是血液净化器，因为它有助于改

善血液结构，从而更好地运输体内的废物和毒素。大蒜提供免疫系统支持、肝脏支持、抗菌活性和抗氧化

特性。所有这些草药都是以下皮肤问题配方中的成分。

As the symptoms and mechanisms of a chronic skin problem become more defined, herbs can be used to provide

added support to specific body systems in need. Herbs can also be used to relieve uncomfortable symptoms. The

ingredients of the Basic Support Formula (see box on page 287) can then be adjusted to suit special needs. For

instance, for a dog suffering from seborrhea attributed to food-borne heavy metals (a condition your holistic vet

must diagnose), a short-term regimen of yellow dock can be added to the formula to help to quickly eliminate toxic

buildups of metals or chemicals in the body. For an animal with a skin disorder associated with chronic constipation,

Oregon grape may be useful to quickly increase bile production from the liver and improve digestion and

elimination of waste, while marshmallow may also benefit the animal by lubricating the colon.

随着慢性皮肤问题的症状和机制变得更加明确，草药可以用来为有需要的特定身体系统提供额外的支

持。草药也可用于缓解不适症状。然后可以调整基本支持配方（参见第 287 页上的方框）的成分以满足特

殊需要。例如，对于因食源性重金属而患有皮脂溢的狗（您的整体兽医必须诊断出这种情况），可以在配

方中添加黄坞的短期治疗方案，以帮助快速消除金属或金属的有毒积累。体内的化学物质。对于患有与慢

性便秘相关的皮肤病的动物，俄勒冈葡萄可能有助于快速增加肝脏的胆汁分泌，改善消化和废物的排除，

而棉花糖也可能通过润滑结肠而使动物受益。

When using herbs to relieve the symptoms of disease, it’s important to keep your perspective holistic. Remember,

=== PAGE 527 ===
symptoms are valuable evidence of what’s going on within an animal’s body—don’t suppress them unless you are

finished using them to determine corrective measures for the underlying problem. For instance, if you use licorice to

relieve your companion’s inflamed skin without improving his diet, the goal of finding a curative solution will never

be reached. Dermatitis—a symptom—may be temporarily relieved with licorice, but the underlying causes cannot

be addressed unless we look at the entire problem holistically.

当使用草药缓解疾病症状时，保持整体观点很重要。请记住，症状是动物体内发生情况的宝贵证据，除

非您已完成使用它们来确定潜在问题的纠正措施，否则不要压制它们。例如，如果你用甘草来缓解同伴发

炎的皮肤而不改善他的饮食，那么就永远无法达到找到治疗方案的目标。皮炎——一种症状——可以用甘

草暂时缓解，但除非我们全面地看待整个问题，否则无法解决根本原因。

BASIC SUPPORT FORMULA

基本支持公式

Combine the following:

结合以下内容：

2 parts burdock root

2份牛蒡根

2 parts cleavers 7

2 件切肉刀 7

1 part dandelion, in equal proportions of root and leaf

1 份蒲公英，根和叶的比例相同

1 part red clover (flowering tops)

1份红三叶草（顶部开花）

1 part fresh organic garlic powder

1 份新鲜有机大蒜粉

Flaxseed oil, evening primrose oil, borage seed oil, fish oil, or a prepared multi-EFA supplement should be

fed to the animal with this formula.

亚麻籽油、月见草油、琉璃苣籽油、鱼油或准备好的多 EFA 补充剂应按此配方喂给动物。

This formula can be used in several forms. A combination of the dried ingredients (except cleavers) can be

fed directly to an animal or sprinkled onto his food daily at a rate of 1 tablespoon per 40 pounds of the

animal’s body weight. The cleavers has to be added in the form of a liquid preparation because it oxidizes

quickly and loses its potency when dried. Therefore, 1/4 teaspoon (1 milliliter) of a glycerin-based cleavers

tincture or 2 tablespoons (30 milliliters) of strong cleavers tea should be fed in place of the dry herb for each

40 pounds of an animal’s body weight. For cats, ferrets, rabbits, birds, and other small animals, the dosage is

prorated according to the animal’s estimated weight. A parrot, for example, needs only a few drops of the

tincture each day.

该公式可以多种形式使用。干燥成分（切肉刀除外）的组合可以直接喂给动物或每天以每 40 磅动

物体重 1 汤匙的比例撒在其食物上。切肉刀必须以液体制剂的形式添加，因为它会很快氧化并在干

燥后失去效力。因此，每 40 磅体重的动物应饲喂 1/4 茶匙（1 毫升）甘油基刀酊剂或 2 汤匙（30 毫

升）浓刀刀茶来代替干药草。对于猫、雪貂、兔子、鸟类和其他小动物，剂量根据动物的估计体重

按比例分配。例如，鹦鹉每天只需要几滴酊剂。

Another option that is particularly good for horses, goats, llamas, and other herbivores is to administer the

Basic Support Formula as fresh herbs. For these large animals, a few heaping handfuls of the herb mix

=== PAGE 528 ===
should suffice each day. For rabbits and other small vegetarians, ½ cup of the mixture can be fed. If the

animal eats a portion of the serving and then stops, it might mean that he has received all he needs. Take the

remainder away. Cats, dogs, and other carnivores can be fed a raw mixture too, but keep in mind that they

may have problems swallowing the cleavers—especially if it is Galium aparine, the species most commonly

used for herbal medicine. Galium aparine has a clinging nature that causes it to stick in the throats of

animals who are not accustomed to eating live weeds. While this situation is not life threatening, it can cause

some gagging and coughing. You may choose to feed your animal a species of Galium that does not share

this characteristic, such as Northern bedstraw (Galium boreale—a common weed), or a garden variety such

as sweet woodruff, (Galium odoratum) which does not have a sticky nature.

另一种对马、山羊、美洲驼和其他食草动物特别有利的选择是将基本支持配方作为新鲜草药服

用。对于这些大型动物来说，每天抓一把草药混合物就足够了。对于兔子和其他小型素食动物，可

以喂 ½ 杯混合物。如果动物吃了一部分然后停下来，这可能意味着它已经得到了它所需要的一切。

把剩下的拿走。猫、狗和其他食肉动物也可以喂食生混合物，但请记住，它们可能在吞咽切肉刀时

遇到问题，尤其是如果它是最常用于草药的品种Galium aparine。肝素镓具有粘附性，会导致其粘在

不习惯吃活草的动物的喉咙里。虽然这种情况不会危及生命，但可能会导致一些呕吐和咳嗽。您可

以选择给您的动物喂食不具有此特性的镓品种，例如北方床草（Galium booleale - 一种常见杂草），

或花园品种，例如甜车草（Galium odoratum），它不具有粘性自然。

It’s important to remember that the intent of this formula is to assist organ functions and to optimize the

body’s absorption of needed nutrients. Providing a high-quality, natural diet is therefore paramount. It’s also

important to keep in mind that tonic herbs, being noninvasive, work only at the body’s natural pace.

Therefore, a tonic herbal therapy may take several days or even weeks to show results. Be patient, and allow

your companion’s body an opportunity to heal itself.

重要的是要记住，该配方的目的是帮助器官功能并优化身体对所需营养物质的吸收。因此，提供

高质量、天然的饮食至关重要。同样重要的是要记住，滋补草药是非侵入性的，只能按照身体的自

然节奏发挥作用。因此，滋补草药疗法可能需要几天甚至几周才能显示效果。要有耐心，让你同伴

的身体有机会自我治愈。

=== PAGE 529 ===
SEBORRHEA

皮脂溢

Seborrhea is a term that is widely used for any form of skin-related disease characterized by dry or greasy, inflamed

or itchy skin. Seborrhea may stem from any number of possibilities. At the top of the list are poor food quality and

nutritional deficiency, followed by flea- or foodrelated allergies, vaccinosis, and excessive antibiotic use. Bacterial,

fungal, viral, or parasitic (mite) infection and immune system dysfunction are also possible causes.

皮脂溢这个术语广泛用于任何形式的皮肤相关疾病，其特征是皮肤干燥或油腻、发炎或发痒。皮脂溢可能

源于多种可能性。排在首位的是食物质量差和营养缺乏，其次是跳蚤或食物相关过敏、疫苗接种和抗生素

过度使用。细菌、真菌、病毒或寄生虫（螨）感染和免疫系统功能障碍也是可能的原因。

Conventional treatment of seborrhea typically begins with the use of medicated shampoos and topical steroid and

antibiotic preparations. In cases in which clinical diagnosis identifies skin infections, these measures can bring quick

relief, but they usually do not address the reasons the skin became infected in the first place. Antibiotic and

corticosteroid therapies are often used in cases of seborrhea that do not respond to topical treatment. From a holistic

standpoint however, such measures compound the situation by inducing their own levels of systemic imbalance.

Antibiotic and steroid therapies may make the symptoms disappear, but the underlying cause continues to go

unchecked; the disease may be pushed deeper into the body and result in a much more serious disorder.

皮脂溢的传统治疗通常从使用药用洗发水和外用类固醇和抗生素制剂开始。在临床诊断发现皮肤感染的

情况下，这些措施可以快速缓解症状，但它们通常不能首先解决皮肤感染的原因。对于局部治疗无效的皮

脂溢病例，通常使用抗生素和皮质类固醇疗法。然而，从整体角度来看，这些措施会引发自身的系统性失

衡，从而使情况变得更加复杂。抗生素和类固醇疗法可能会使症状消失，但根本原因仍然得不到控制；这

种疾病可能会深入身体并导致更严重的疾病。

The holistic approach begins when we realize that seborrhea is not really a disease itself but a term used for a

variety of skin-related disorders. There is no standard herbal treatment to use for every kind of seborrhea. All forms

of chronic skin disease, however, have two things in common: all are connected to diet and all are less likely to

occur or progress in animals who have healthy waste elimination and strong immune systems.

当我们意识到皮脂溢本身并不是一种真正的疾病，而是用于描述各种皮肤相关疾病的术语时，我们就开

始采用整体方法。对于每种类型的皮脂溢，没有标准的草药治疗方法。然而，所有形式的慢性皮肤病都有

两个共同点：所有这些都与饮食有关，并且在具有健康废物消除和强大免疫系统的动物中，所有慢性皮肤

病都不太可能发生或进展。

ASTRINGENT HEALING SKIN RINSE

收敛修复皮肤冲洗液

Combine the following:

结合以下内容：

1 part juniper or uva ursi leaf decoction*

1 份杜松或熊叶汤*

1 part calendula flowers, steeped into a strong tea

1 份金盏花，浸泡在浓茶中

1 part peppermint

1 份 薄荷

*See “Basics of Herbal Preparations” in chapter 1 for instructions on making a decoction

=== PAGE 530 ===
*有关制作汤剂的说明，请参阅第 1 章中的“草药制剂基础知识”

Combine all ingredients, herb material and all, and allow the mixture to stand until cooled. Strain the cooled

fluid through a sieve, then soak the animal’s skin and coat (avoid the eyes) with the solution. Let the animal

drip dry.

将所有成分、香草材料等混合，静置直至冷却。通过筛子过滤冷却的液体，然后用溶液浸泡动物的

皮肤和外套（避开眼睛）。让动物滴干。

If the animal insists on licking off the solution, you can use the rinse as a fomentation—wrap an old towel

or cloth (preferably undyed and unbleached) around the affected body parts, then thoroughly soak the towel

with the cooled solution. This prevents the animal from licking off the solution and enables you to keep the

solution on your companion animal for several hours.

如果动物坚持要舔掉溶液，你可以用冲洗液作为热敷——用旧毛巾或布（最好是未染色和未漂白

的）包裹受影响的身体部位，然后用冷却的溶液彻底浸泡毛巾。这样可以防止动物舔掉溶液，并使

您能够将溶液保留在伴侣动物身上几个小时。

Diet should be critically evaluated and improved to optimize the animal’s resistance to disease. Supplemental

EFAs (e.g., flaxseed), digestive enzymes, minerals, and vitamins (especially vitamins E, A, and C) should be

provided, and the possibility of food allergies should be considered.

应严格评估和改进饮食，以优化动物对疾病的抵抗力。应提供补充必需脂肪酸（例如亚麻籽）、消化

酶、矿物质和维生素（尤其是维生素 E、A 和 C），并应考虑食物过敏的可能性。

First make a decoction of the juniper or the uva ursi leaves.

首先用杜松子或熊果叶煎汤。

=== PAGE 531 ===
Strain the cooled fluid through a sieve.

通过筛子过滤冷却的液体。

Pour the liquid over your animal’s skin and coat.

将液体倒在动物的皮肤和皮毛上。

=== PAGE 532 ===
If your animal licks the rinse off his skin, use the rinse as a fomentation instead.

如果您的动物舔掉了皮肤上的冲洗液，请使用冲洗液作为热敷剂。

At the same time you are adjusting diet, treatment should begin with herbs that offer tonic support to the immune

system and all organs involved in food metabolism and waste elimination. The Basic Support Formula serves as a

good starting point. The animal’s entire health history should be evaluated to find clues to possible causes. Animals

who have been subjected to prolonged antibiotic therapies may respond well to immunemodulating herbs such as

astragalus or echinacea.

在调整饮食的同时，治疗应从为免疫系统以及参与食物代谢和废物消除的所有器官提供滋补支持的草药

开始。基本支持公式是一个很好的起点。应评估动物的整个健康史，以找到可能原因的线索。长期接受抗

生素治疗的动物可能对黄芪或紫锥菊等免疫调节草药反应良好。

ECHINACEA AND OREGON GRAPE CLAY POULTICE

紫锥菊和俄勒冈葡萄泥膏

Combine the following:

结合以下内容：

4 oz green or bentonite clay

4 盎司绿色粘土或膨润土

(powder)8

（粉末） 8

½ oz echinacea tincture

½ 盎司紫锥菊酊剂

(alcohol based)

（基于酒精）

½ oz Oregon grape tincture

=== PAGE 533 ===
½ 盎司俄勒冈葡萄酊剂

(alcohol based)

（基于酒精）

Thoroughly combine the three ingredients, adding just enough distilled water to make a thick paste. Then

apply the poultice to the affected areas and leave it on to dry, if possible. If licking, rolling, scratching, or

other attempts at removal are a problem, wrap the area with a cloth or a piece of gauze. Leftover poultice can

be put into an airtight container and stored in the refrigerator almost indefinitely. If it dries out, just add more

water or tincture to soften it.

将三种成分彻底混合，加入足够的蒸馏水，制成浓稠的糊状物。然后将药膏涂抹在受影响的区域，

如果可能的话，将其晾干。如果舔、滚动、刮擦或其他尝试去除有问题，请用布或纱布包裹该区

域。剩余的药膏可以放入密封容器中并几乎无限期地存放在冰箱中。如果它变干，只需添加更多的

水或酊剂来软化它。

To relieve itching and inflammation on the surface of the body, herbs with astringent and wound-healing

properties are indicated. In dogs or cats with itchy skin that exhibits little or no change of appearance, a liberal

application of oatmeal may be applied to affected areas—cook the oatmeal into a loose, wet consistency and allow it

to cool before putting it on your animal. A peppermint or lavender skin rinse is another option to help relieve

itching. If the itching is associated with minor redness, a daily skin rinse of cooled chamomile, plantain, or calendula

tea may bring relief. Completely soak the animal with the tea and allow him to drip dry. If open scratches, scabs, or

sores are visible, try combining calendula and comfrey, with sage, bee balm, thyme, or yarrow tea in equal

proportions. When cooled and used in a rinse, this mixture accelerates the healing process and helps inhibit bacterial

infection.

为了缓解身体表面的瘙痒和炎症，需要使用具有收敛和愈合伤口特性的草药。对于皮肤发痒且外观变化

很小或没有变化的狗或猫，可以在受影响的区域涂抹大量燕麦片——将燕麦片煮成松散、潮湿的稠度，待

其冷却后再涂在动物身上。薄荷或薰衣草皮肤冲洗液是另一种有助于缓解瘙痒的选择。如果瘙痒伴有轻微

发红，每天用冷却的洋甘菊、车前草或金盏花茶冲洗皮肤可能会缓解症状。将动物用茶完全浸泡并让其滴

干。如果可见开放性划痕、结痂或疮口，请尝试将金盏花和紫草与等比例的鼠尾草、蜂油、百里香或西洋

蓍草茶混合。当冷却并用于冲洗时，这种混合物可加速愈合过程并有助于抑制细菌感染。

If your companion’s condition is severe—the skin is flaky and red and scratching or chewing is continuous—

stronger astringents may be needed. A decoction of uva ursi, juniper leaf, or rose bark are strong astringents that

should serve well here. When using strong astringents on animals, proceed with caution. Dogs, cats, rabbits, ferrets,

and other small creatures have skin that is often quite sensitive. Before soaking your animal with a fluid that is

intended to tighten the skin, test it first—put a small amount on a portion of the animal’s body to make sure that

there will not be any adverse reaction. One example of a basic astringent skin rinse can be found in the box on page

288.

如果你同伴的情况很严重——皮肤呈片状、发红，并且持续抓挠或咀嚼——可能需要更强的收敛剂。熊

果、杜松叶或玫瑰皮的汤剂是强效收敛剂，在这里应该很有效。对动物使用强力收敛剂时，请务必小心。

狗、猫、兔子、雪貂和其他小动物的皮肤通常非常敏感。在用收紧皮肤的液体浸泡动物之前，请先进行测

试 - 将少量液体涂在动物身体的一部分上，以确保不会出现任何不良反应。第 288 页的包装盒中提供了一

种基本收敛性皮肤冲洗剂的示例。

Birds have especially tender skin, and rinses consisting of strong astringents should be avoided in most cases.

Sage, bee balm, or peppermint tea often work well in a birdbath. (Sage may help eliminate mites as well as relieve

itching.) Add a dilute concentration of the tea to a bowl of clean, chlorine-free water (just enough to tint the water)

and place it in the cage. Most birds enjoy taking an occasional bath, especially if they’re itchy!

鸟类的皮肤特别娇嫩，在大多数情况下应避免使用强收敛剂的冲洗液。鼠尾草、蜂香膏或薄荷茶通常在

水盆中效果很好。 （鼠尾草可能有助于消除螨虫并缓解瘙痒。）将稀释浓度的茶加入一碗干净的无氯水中

（足以使水着色），然后将其放入笼子中。大多数鸟儿喜欢偶尔洗澡，尤其是当它们发痒的时候！

If an established bacterial infection is evident (an area is swollen and red, and sores are discharging pus), internal

doses of echinacea tincture can be coupled with external applications of echinacea and Oregon grape (or organically

farmed goldenseal) powder, tincture, salve, or ointment at the sites of infection. This boosts immune system

=== PAGE 534 ===
response to the infection while adding direct antibacterial intervention. Another effective option for treating isolated

infections of the skin is an echinacea and Oregon grape clay poultice, which is discussed in detail below.

如果明显存在细菌感染（局部肿胀、发红，疮口流脓），可内服紫锥菊酊剂，并外用紫锥菊和俄勒冈葡

萄（或有机种植的毛茛）粉末、酊剂、药膏、或在感染部位涂药膏。这增强了免疫系统对感染的反应，同

时增加了直接的抗菌干预。治疗皮肤孤立感染的另一种有效选择是紫锥菊和俄勒冈葡萄粘土膏剂，下文将

详细讨论。

In cases in which itching and inflammation are severe, internal doses of licorice may bring relief by boosting

production of corticosteroids in the body and lending direct anti-inflammatory activities to the effort. But licorice

may not be a good choice in chronic, perhaps inherited skin disorders that require continuous long-term treatment

because of its possible side effects. In these cases, herbal treatment is limited to nutritional support and topical relief

measures.

在瘙痒和炎症严重的情况下，内服甘草可以通过促进体内皮质类固醇的产生并提供直接的抗炎活性来缓

解症状。但对于慢性遗传性皮肤病来说，甘草可能不是一个好的选择，因为它可能有副作用，需要持续长

期治疗。在这些情况下，草药治疗仅限于营养支持和局部缓解措施。

If the animal has a fever, a good possibility exists that the infection has moved into the body, meaning it’s time to

call your veterinarian immediately.

如果动物发烧，很可能感染已转移到体内，这意味着需要立即致电兽医。

=== PAGE 535 ===
PYODERMA

脓皮病

The term pyoderma refers to infections of the skin that are characterized by the presence of subsurface pus. Most

often, pyoderma is caused by foreign bodies such as splinters, insect bites or stings, fleas, or mites that have entered

the skin and caused infection. In these cases, basic first aid or antiparasitic measures usually solve the problem. But

in cases where pyoderma is secondary to systemic disease or dysfunction, its presence may indicate a serious, even

life-threatening, condition. The possible causes range from a minor nutritional deficiency or allergy to inherited or

acquired metabolic dysfunctions, autoimmune disease or deficiency (including lupus, pemphigus, vasculitis), viral

infection (including FeLV and FIV), hormonal imbalances, parasitic infections, long-term steroid therapies, and

even cancer. The potential seriousness of pyoderma-related illnesses is testament to the value and importance of

requiring a full holistic examination of your companion, his diet, and his environment.

术语脓皮病是指以存在皮下脓液为特征的皮肤感染。最常见的是，脓皮病是由异物引起的，例如碎片、昆

虫叮咬或叮咬、跳蚤或螨虫进入皮肤并引起感染。在这些情况下，基本的急救或抗寄生虫措施通常可以解

决问题。但如果脓皮病继发于全身性疾病或功能障碍，则其存在可能表明病情严重，甚至危及生命。可能

的原因包括轻微的营养缺乏或过敏、遗传性或后天性代谢功能障碍、自身免疫性疾病或缺陷（包括狼疮、

天疱疮、血管炎）、病毒感染（包括 FeLV 和 FIV）、荷尔蒙失衡、寄生虫感染、长期类固醇疗法，甚至癌

症。脓皮病相关疾病的潜在严重性证明了对您的伴侣、他的饮食和环境进行全面全面检查的价值和重要

性。

Diet and nutrition, as you may have guessed, are the first factors to consider in treating any pyoderma-related

disorder of internal origin. Herbal therapies should start with tonic support. The Basic Support Formula (see page

287) offers a good start. In severe cases, perhaps where acnelike pustules erupt on the chin of a cat and begin to

spread to other parts of the body, a safe but aggressive systemic detoxification therapy might be indicated. This

might include diuretic herbs such as dandelion leaf; liver stimulants such as yellow dock, Oregon grape, and

turmeric; and blood-cleansing alternatives such as red clover and alfalfa. Liver-regenerating herbs such as milk

thistle and licorice may be useful as well, especially in cases in which chemical-induced liver damage is a suspected

cause. Marshmallow root may help to ease the movement of waste through the colon. Psyllium husks added to the

animal’s food as per the supplement manufacturer’s directions may also assist with the passing of waste.

正如您可能已经猜到的那样，饮食和营养是治疗任何与脓皮病相关的内源性疾病时首先要考虑的因素。

草药疗法应从滋补支持开始。基本支持公式（参见第 287 页）提供了一个良好的开端。在严重的情况下，

也许猫的下巴上出现痤疮样脓疱并开始扩散到身体的其他部位，可能需要采取安全但积极的全身排毒疗

法。这可能包括利尿草药，例如蒲公英叶；肝脏兴奋剂，如黄坞、俄勒冈葡萄和姜黄；以及红三叶草和苜

蓿等净化血液的替代品。水飞蓟和甘草等肝脏再生草药也可能有用，特别是在怀疑化学物质引起的肝损伤

的情况下。药蜀葵根可能有助于缓解废物通过结肠的移动。按照补充剂制造商的说明添加到动物食物中的

车前子壳也可能有助于排出废物。

In addition to supporting the liver, kidneys, and digestive system, it’s important to thoroughly evaluate and

support the animal’s immune system. Clinical blood and urine tests may be useful here, as will the experience of a

holistic veterinarian. If a determination is made that the immune system needs stimulation, echinacea or astragalus

may prove beneficial. If immune deficiency is compounded by viral infection, liver damage, or inflammation,

licorice may serve as a useful adjunct. It’s important to note, however, that immune system stimulation may not

always be a good idea in the treatment of autoimmune disease in which the body’s immune system is working

against itself, such as with lupus erythematosus. Again, you are advised to consult your veterinarian before

proceeding.

除了支持肝脏、肾脏和消化系统之外，彻底评估和支持动物的免疫系统也很重要。临床血液和尿液测试

以及整体兽医的经验在这里可能有用。如果确定免疫系统需要刺激，紫锥菊或黄芪可能是有益的。如果病

毒感染、肝损伤或炎症导致免疫缺陷，那么甘草可能是一种有用的辅助药物。然而，值得注意的是，在治

疗自身免疫性疾病时，刺激免疫系统可能并不总是一个好主意，在这种疾病中，身体的免疫系统会对抗自

身，例如红斑狼疮。再次强调，建议您在继续之前咨询您的兽医。

External discomforts can be relieved with the same astringent and anti-inflammatory herbs that are used for

=== PAGE 536 ===
seborrhea. Aloe gel or a plantain or chickweed poultice may bring soothing relief as well. For cases in which

pyoderma is limited to just a few isolated areas of the body, an herb-clay poultice can be especially effective at

relieving itching, inhibiting bacteria and fungi, and pulling infection toward the surface of the body. When applied

to the skin, the green or bentonite clay used for the poultice (or paste) naturally pulls fluid and waste products

toward itself, while lending its own itch-relieving astringent activities and a diversity of mineral nutrients to the skin.

As pathogenic microbes are drawn toward the clay, they are confronted with antimicrobial herb constituents that

inhibit their reproduction.

使用与治疗皮脂溢相同的收敛和抗炎草药可以缓解外部不适。芦荟凝胶、大蕉或繁缕膏也可以带来舒缓

效果。对于脓皮病仅限于身体少数孤立区域的情况，草药粘土膏剂在缓解瘙痒、抑制细菌和真菌以及将感

染拉向身体表面方面特别有效。当涂抹到皮肤上时，用于膏剂（或糊剂）的绿色粘土或膨润土会自然地将

液体和废物拉向自身，同时为皮肤提供其自身的止痒收敛活性和多种矿物质营养。当病原微生物被吸引向

粘土时，它们会遇到抑制其繁殖的抗菌药草成分。

This clay poultice is an excellent first aid remedy for venomous and nonvenomous bites and stings as well. Be

aware that the bentonite clay sold at hardware and feed stores often contains harmful bacteria and other impurities.

Alcohol tinctures are preferable to glycerin because they add astringency to the formula and serve as preservatives in

a poultice that is saved for future use.

这种粘土膏剂对于有毒和无毒的咬伤和蜇伤也是一种极好的急救药物。请注意，五金店和饲料店出售的

膨润土通常含有有害细菌和其他杂质。酒精酊剂比甘油更可取，因为它们会增加配方的涩味，并在保存以

备将来使用的膏剂中充当防腐剂。

=== PAGE 537 ===
CONTACT DERMATITIS

接触性皮炎

Contact dermatitis is caused when an irritating substance, organism, or allergen contacts or damages the outer

surface of the skin. The onset of symptoms can be immediate or delayed for hours or even days.

当刺激性物质、生物体或过敏原接触或损伤皮肤外表面时会引起接触性皮炎。症状可能立即出现，也可能

延迟数小时甚至数天。

Contact dermatitis can appear in many forms—from what appears to be a hot, pink-flushed spot of skin to raised

wheals, blisters, and ulcers that cover the animal’s body.

接触性皮炎可以以多种形式出现——从皮肤上出现粉红色的发热斑点到覆盖动物身体的凸起的风团、水

泡和溃疡。

In dogs and cats, the most common form of contact dermatitis occurs as the result of fleabites. Treatment in these

cases begins with examining why the animal is so hypersensitive to the bites and then continues by working to make

the environments of these pesky critters less hospitable.

在狗和猫中，最常见的接触性皮炎是由跳蚤引起的。对这些病例的治疗首先要检查为什么动物对叮咬如

此敏感，然后继续努力使这些讨厌的动物的环境变得不那么适宜。

Symptomatic relief can be provided by applying astringent skin rinses (see “Seborrhea”). A skin rinse of grindelia

is considered a specific remedy for dermatitis caused by contact with poison ivy or poison oak. Jewelweed

(Impatiens capensis ), a plant native to eastern and central North America, has also been long regarded as a remedy

for poison ivy. The tea of this herb is taken internally by humans, but its safety and effectiveness in animals are

unknown. Alterative and diuretic herbs such as burdock root and dandelion leaf may be fed in tea or whole form to

help the body eliminate antigenic compounds that may be contributing to the itch and inflammation.

使用收敛性皮肤冲洗液可以缓解症状（参见“皮脂溢”）。银杏叶冲洗液被认为是治疗因接触毒葛或毒橡

树而引起的皮炎的特效疗法。宝石草（Impatiens capensis）是一种原产于北美东部和中部的植物，长期以来

也被认为是治疗毒葛的药物。这种草药的茶可供人类内服，但其对动物的安全性和有效性尚不清楚。牛蒡

根和蒲公英叶等替代和利尿草药可以以茶或整体形式喂食，以帮助身体消除可能导致瘙痒和炎症的抗原化

合物。

=== PAGE 538 ===
SEBACEOUS CYSTS

皮脂囊肿

Sebaceous cysts are lesions involving the ducts leading from sebaceous glands to their associated hair follicles. They

are generally caused by obstruction of the ducts and appear as semisolid, freely moving lumps beneath the skin.

皮脂囊肿是涉及从皮脂腺通向相关毛囊的导管的病变。它们通常是由导管阻塞引起的，表现为皮下半固

体、自由移动的肿块。

A natural raw food diet is the best prevention. If an animal does get a sebaceous cyst, administering some herbs

that help the body eliminate more easily might be in order. Herbs that assist lymphatic drainage, such as cleavers,

red clover, calendula, and burdock may help.

天然生食饮食是最好的预防措施。如果动物确实患有皮脂腺囊肿，可能需要服用一些有助于身体更容易

排泄的草药。有助于淋巴引流的草药，如菜刀、红三叶草、金盏花和牛蒡可能会有帮助。

A SYSTEMIC DETOXIFYING FORMULA FOR DOGS, CATS,

HORSES, AND GOATS

适用于狗、猫、马和山羊的全身排毒配方

Combine the following:

结合以下内容：

2 parts dandelion leaf

2 份 蒲公英叶

2 parts yellow dock root

2 份 黄色坞根

2 parts red clover

2份红三叶草

1 part licorice root

1 份 甘草根

2 parts marshmallow

2 份 棉花糖

For dogs and cats, a glycerin-based tincture is the best form of application for this detoxifying formula.

Yellow dock is bitter, and the sweet flavor of vegetable glycerin aids in administration. Feeding about 1/4

teaspoon (1 milliliter) of the combined tincture twice daily for each 20 pounds of an animal’s body weight is

usually sufficient to stimulate elimination. For best results, feed the tincture directly into the animal’s mouth.

If this isn’t possible, try diluting the tincture with water. As a last resort, add it to the animal’s food. This

formula should not be used continuously for more than seven days.

对于狗和猫来说，甘油酊剂是这种排毒配方的最佳应用形式。黄坞味苦，植物甘油的甜味有助于给

药。每 20 磅体重的动物每天喂食两次约 1/4 茶匙（1 毫升）的混合酊剂通常足以刺激排泄。为了获

得最佳效果，请将酊剂直接喂入动物的嘴里。如果不可能，请尝试用水稀释酊剂。作为最后的手

段，将其添加到动物的食物中。本方连续使用不宜超过7天。

=== PAGE 539 ===
Horses, goats, sheep, llamas, and other large herbivores can be fed this formula in fresh or dried, whole-

herb form—if they’ll eat it. Horses will probably need 3–6 cups of the herbs each day, whereas goats, sheep,

and llamas may need only 1½–3 cups. If direct feeding is not possible, try feeding everything but the yellow

dock, then administer this bitter herb later in the form of tincture (prorate the tincture’s dosage to the amount

the animal would receive in the formula).

马、山羊、绵羊、美洲驼和其他大型食草动物可以用新鲜或干燥的全药草形式喂养这种配方——

如果它们愿意吃的话。马每天可能需要 3-6 杯草药，而山羊、绵羊和美洲驼可能只需要 1.5-3 杯。如

果无法直接喂养，请尝试喂养除黄码头以外的所有东西，然后以酊剂的形式施用这种苦味药草（将

酊剂的剂量按动物在配方中接受的量按比例分配）。

The idea behind this detoxifying formula is to stimulate gentle elimination of waste from the liver and

digestive organs, not to drain your animal. If vomiting occurs, discontinue use immediately. Stools should be

soft but not watery and gushing on passage. Likewise, the animal should not show any signs of gastric

discomfort such as griping, distention, or odd sounds coming from the stomach. If this occurs, reduce the

dose by one-half or discontinue use—the digestive system is stimulated enough and a different approach is

warranted. On the other hand, if your animal has been constipated and is not finding relief from this formula,

then the dosage can be increased in increments of 10 percent per feeding until stools appear soft or until the

equivalent of one and one-half times the original dose is reached. After that, if results are not seen within two

days, discontinue use—this formula is probably not going to work for your animal.

这种排毒配方背后的想法是刺激肝脏和消化器官中废物的温和消除，而不是排干你的动物。如果

发生呕吐，请立即停止使用。大便应该是软的，但不应该是水样的并且在排便时不流淌。同样，动

物不应表现出任何胃部不适的迹象，例如胃部绞痛、腹胀或发出奇怪的声音。如果发生这种情况，

请将剂量减少一半或停止使用——消化系统受到足够的刺激，需要采取不同的方法。另一方面，如

果您的动物患有便秘并且该配方没有缓解症状，则每次喂食的剂量可以以 10% 的增量增加，直到大

便变软或直到相当于原来的一倍半剂量已达到。之后，如果两天内没有看到结果，请停止使用 - 该

配方可能对您的动物不起作用。

This detoxifying formula should not be given continuously for more than ten days without the supervision

of a qualified practitioner. It should not be used in pregnant animals or in those with a history of urinary

stones or preexisting kidney disease. All of this is because of the oxalic acid contained in yellow dock. When

used over a long period of time, oxalic acid can be irritating to the urinary system, and it may contribute to

the formation of kidney or bladder stones.

在没有合格执业医师的监督下，这种排毒配方不应连续服用超过十天。它不应用于怀孕动物或有

尿路结石或既往有肾脏疾病病史的动物。这一切都是因为黄坞中含有草酸。长期使用时，草酸会刺

激泌尿系统，并可能导致肾结石或膀胱结石的形成。

=== PAGE 540 ===
URINARY PROBLEMS

泌尿问题

You may notice that your companion is drinking more and urinating less, urinating in unusual places, or straining

while urinating. Blood or other discharge may be visible in the urine, redness and inflammation may be evident at or

around the animal’s urethra, or urine may be dark or especially odorous. If discomfort is evident when the lower

abdomen or the area immediately behind the rib cage is gently palpated with fingertips, your companion may have

an infection or inflammation of the bladder or kidneys. While these are all physical signs of a urinary tract disorder,

holistic care of an animal’s urinary system requires a level of attentiveness beyond mere recognition of such

symptoms.

您可能会注意到您的同伴喝得更多，排尿更少，在不寻常的地方排尿，或者排尿时用力。尿液中可能会出

现血液或其他分泌物，动物尿道处或周围可能会出现明显的发红和炎症，或者尿液可能呈深色或特别有气

味。如果用指尖轻轻触诊下腹部或紧邻胸廓后方的区域时感到明显不适，则您的伴侣可能患有膀胱或肾脏

感染或炎症。虽然这些都是泌尿道疾病的体征，但对动物泌尿系统的整体护理需要一定程度的关注，而不

仅仅是识别这些症状。

The urinary system is a delicately balanced arrangement of organs and body chemistries that serve a critical

purpose of eliminating potentially toxic compounds from the body. The elimination process begins with the kidneys,

which are responsible for separating waste material from the blood and delivering it via the ureters to the bladder.

The bladder then holds the urine until it is released from the body via the urethra. This system sounds simple but is

actually complex when we consider the special nutritive, chemical, and structural requirements of the individual

organs. The kidneys are fragile, oxygen-dependent organs with a low tolerance to stress. They work in concert with

the digestive tract, liver, and circulatory system, and they are easily damaged if the relationships between these

systems become compromised. For instance, if the liver is deficient in its job of removing dietary and systemic

waste via the digestive tract, the kidneys and urinary tract suffer from the stress of handling waste products that they

are not designed to handle. The result can be kidney failure, stones, inflammation, or infection. Adding to the

holistic complexity of this system is the fact that it is largely made up of smooth-muscle structures, unique vascular

arrangements, and mucous membranes that require a special diversity of nutrients and precise chemical balances to

remain healthy and functional.

泌尿系统是器官和身体化学物质的微妙平衡排列，其关键目的是消除体内潜在的有毒化合物。消除过程

从肾脏开始，肾脏负责从血液中分离废物，并通过输尿管将其输送到膀胱。然后膀胱储存尿液，直到尿液

通过尿道排出体外。当我们考虑到各个器官的特殊营养、化学和结构要求时，这个系统听起来很简单，但

实际上很复杂。肾脏是脆弱的、依赖氧气的器官，对压力的耐受性较低。它们与消化道、肝脏和循环系统

协同工作，如果这些系统之间的关系受到损害，它们很容易受损。例如，如果肝脏无法通过消化道清除饮

食和全身废物，那么肾脏和泌尿道就会承受处理废物的压力，而这些废物本来就不适合处理。结果可能是

肾衰竭、结石、炎症或感染。增加该系统整体复杂性的事实是，它主要由平滑肌结构、独特的血管排列和

粘膜组成，需要特殊的营养多样性和精确的化学平衡才能保持健康和功能。

The most effective way to treat or prevent urinary system illness is to recognize your animal’s needs before

physical symptoms of disease are obvious. Sometimes our companions have strange ways of telling us that they

don’t feel well. They may start spraying the wall or our favorite clothes. Such behavior may be related to an

emotional problem, but it may also mean that our friends are trying to tell us that something is seriously wrong

physically. Don’t ignore or write off sudden bad behavior as neurosis—the situation could be quite serious.

治疗或预防泌尿系统疾病的最有效方法是在疾病的身体症状明显之前认识到动物的需求。有时，我们的

同伴会用奇怪的方式告诉我们他们感觉不舒服。他们可能会开始喷洒墙壁或我们最喜欢的衣服。这种行为

可能与情绪问题有关，但也可能意味着我们的朋友试图告诉我们身体出现了严重的问题。不要忽视或将突

然出现的不良行为视为神经症——情况可能会非常严重。

Effective holistic treatment of urinary disease starts with a critical assessment of the animal’s diet. Usually

infection, stones, or kidney failure is the progressive result of a nutritional excess, deficiency, or metabolic

=== PAGE 541 ===
imbalance. It’s well known among clinicians and researchers that animals who receive a balanced natural diet

seldom suffer from urinary system ailments.

泌尿系统疾病的有效整体治疗始于对动物饮食的严格评估。通常，感染、结石或肾衰竭是营养过剩、缺

乏或代谢失衡的渐进结果。临床医生和研究人员众所周知，接受均衡天然饮食的动物很少患有泌尿系统疾

病。

When using herbs to treat urinary problems, teas and tinctures are the best forms of preparation. The goal is to get

the active constituents of a plant into the urine, and the best way to do this is to bypass as much of the digestive

system as possible with a liquid solution fed on an empty stomach. Following are some of the more common

treatments for urinary ailments we face as animal caregivers.

当使用草药治疗泌尿系统问题时，茶和酊剂是最好的制剂形式。目标是让植物的活性成分进入尿液，而

做到这一点的最佳方法是空腹喂食液体溶液，尽可能绕过消化系统。以下是我们作为动物护理人员面临的

一些更常见的泌尿系统疾病的治疗方法。

=== PAGE 542 ===
BLADDER AND KIDNEY STONES (UROLITHIASIS)

膀胱结石和肾结石（尿石症）

Like most forms of urinary disease, stones (sometimes called gravel or crystals) are the by-products of metabolic

dysfunction or poor diet. They are associated with the body’s inability to effectively metabolize calcium,

magnesium, ammonium, or other minerals. Many of the minerals that form stones are essential nutrients in a

balanced diet, but they must be received by a healthy balanced body in a readily usable form. It’s important to know

that excess minerals that the body cannot use must be eliminated through the digestive and urinary tracts.

与大多数形式的泌尿系统疾病一样，结石（有时称为砾石或晶体）是代谢功能障碍或不良饮食的副产品。

它们与身体无法有效代谢钙、镁、铵或其他矿物质有关。许多形成结石的矿物质是均衡饮食中的必需营养

素，但它们必须以易于使用的形式被健康均衡的身体吸收。重要的是要知道身体无法利用的多余矿物质必

须通过消化道和泌尿道排出。

Stones are formed when urine pH levels or other chemical factors cause the minerals to bind and form crystals,

which in turn build upon each other to create solid structures known as uroliths. Uroliths are most likely to occur in

the bladder, but they sometimes form in the kidneys. Exposure to cadmium is also known to increase the formation

of stones. The most common source of cadmium exposure for animals is cigarette smoke.

当尿液 pH 值或其他化学因素导致矿物质结合并形成晶体时，结石就会形成，晶体又相互堆积形成称为尿

石的固体结构。尿石最有可能发生在膀胱中，但有时也会在肾脏中形成。众所周知，接触镉也会增加结石

的形成。动物最常见的镉暴露来源是香烟烟雾。

To remain clean and free of harmful bacteria, the urinary tract must continually flush itself. If an animal’s urethra

is blocked by one or more uroliths, uremia, a potentially life-threatening condition, can result. If a ureter is blocked,

kidney damage may occur and progress quickly after the onset of symptoms. Even if the animal’s condition appears

stable and nonprogressive, urolithiasis creates an environment in the urinary system in which impeded waste

elimination may lead to infectious growth of harmful bacteria and fungi. Urolithiasis is especially common in cats,

but dogs and other animals may suffer from stones as well.

为了保持清洁且没有有害细菌，尿道必须不断自我冲洗。如果动物的尿道被一个或多个尿石堵塞，可能

会导致尿毒症，这是一种可能危及生命的疾病。如果输尿管阻塞，可能会发生肾脏损害，并在症状出现后

迅速进展。即使动物的病情看起来稳定且非进展，尿石症也会在泌尿系统中产生一种环境，在这种环境

中，废物排除受阻可能会导致有害细菌和真菌的感染性生长。尿石症在猫中尤其常见，但狗和其他动物也

可能患有结石。

=== PAGE 543 ===
Marshmallow has many qualities that make it a first-choice herb for treating kidney and bladder stones.

棉花糖具有许多品质，使其成为治疗肾结石和膀胱结石的首选草药。

Balanced nutrition is paramount in the effective treatment and prevention of urinary stones. A positive change in

diet often equates to a long-term cure. Many types of urinary stones dissolve when urine chemistry is corrected

through a change of diet. However, some types of stones such as calcium oxalate uroliths must either be eliminated

through the urethra via urination (an often long and painful process) or be surgically removed (depending on the size

and number of the stones).

均衡营养对于有效治疗和预防尿路结石至关重要。饮食的积极改变通常等同于长期治愈。当通过改变饮

食来纠正尿液化学成分时，许多类型的尿路结石就会溶解。然而，某些类型的结石，例如草酸钙尿石，必

须通过排尿通过尿道排出（通常是一个漫长而痛苦的过程），或者通过手术切除（取决于结石的大小和数

量）。

The holistic herbal approach toward urinary system infection or stones must always start with a thorough dietary

evaluation. After that, the primary objectives are to assist the body in eliminating the stones, to help moderate urine

pH (which is normally slightly acidic) with diuretic and demulcent herbs, and to inhibit infection and reduce the

painful inflammation that makes urination difficult by treating with with antimicrobial and anti-inflammatory herbs.

针对泌尿系统感染或结石的整体草药方法必须始终从彻底的饮食评估开始。之后，主要目标是帮助身体

消除结石，用利尿剂和缓和药草帮助调节尿液 pH 值（通常呈微酸性），并通过治疗抑制感染和减少导致排

尿困难的疼痛性炎症。含有抗菌和抗炎草药。

In all cases (whether the stones are in the kidneys or the bladder), our approach begins with a thick, alcohol-free

liquid preparation of marshmallow. The slippery oily mucilage of a cooled marshmallow tea or glycerite provides a

protective lubricating barrier on swollen mucous membranes, thus assisting with the passage of stones.

Marshmallow also has mild astringent qualities and antimicrobial properties that join to reduce inflammation and

help inhibit bacterial growth in the healing process. Plantain serves similar purposes but is less mucilaginous than

marshmallow and has a slightly higher astringency. This makes it appropriate in cases in which the urethral

inflammation from the passage of gravel is causing pain and strain during urination. Gravel root is another

traditional option worth considering.

在所有情况下（无论结石是在肾脏还是膀胱），我们的方法都是从浓稠的、不含酒精的棉花糖液体制剂

开始。冷却的棉花糖茶或甘油的滑滑油性粘液为肿胀的粘膜提供保护性润滑屏障，从而有助于结石通过。

棉花糖还具有温和的收敛特性和抗菌特性，可以减少炎症并有助于抑制愈合过程中的细菌生长。车前草具

=== PAGE 544 ===
有类似的用途，但粘液性低于棉花糖，并且涩味稍高。这使得它适用于砾石通道引起的尿道炎症导致排尿

时疼痛和紧张的情况。砾石根是另一个值得考虑的传统选择。

In cases in which minor urinary bleeding is present and bladder or kidney inflammation persists, couch grass and

corn silk serve as good anti-inflammatories. If significant bleeding is occurring in the bladder but clinical evaluation

has determined that kidney function remains strong and kidney inflammation is not evident, stronger hemostatic and

astringent herbs such as horsetail, uva ursi, and yarrow can be added to marshmallow to help stop the hemorrhage. If

the kidneys are inflamed, however, these herbs may be contraindicated, and couch grass or shepherd’s purse make

better options.

如果存在轻微尿出血且膀胱或肾脏炎症持续存在，沙发草和玉米须可以起到良好的抗炎作用。如果膀胱

出现大量出血，但临床评估确定肾功能仍然强大且肾脏炎症不明显，则可以在棉花糖中添加更强的止血和

收敛草药，例如木贼，熊果和西洋蓍草，以帮助止血。然而，如果肾脏发炎，这些草药可能是禁忌的，而

茅草或荠菜是更好的选择。

Diuretic herbs such as dandelion leaf and cleavers are indicated in cases in which urination has not been severely

obstructed because they help to dilute the urine and assist the body in its efforts to flush stones and bacteria out of

the urinary tract. Keep in mind that if urination is obstructed, strong diuretics may compound the situation because

the increased urine volume may cause added pressure upon the kidneys. If urine backs up into the kidneys, a life-

threatening infection can result. See your veterinarian immediately.

蒲公英叶和菜刀等利尿草药适用于排尿未严重受阻的情况，因为它们有助于稀释尿液并协助身体将结石

和细菌冲出尿道。请记住，如果排尿受阻，强效利尿剂可能会使情况变得更加复杂，因为尿量增加可能会

导致肾脏压力增加。如果尿液回流到肾脏，可能会导致危及生命的感染。立即去看兽医。

Antimicrobial herbs should be used as a preventive measure against infection, especially in circumstances in

which urination is inhibited. Echinacea serves this purpose well. Oregon grape or certified organic goldenseal is

useful for fighting bacteria and serve as effective anti-inflammatory agents in the bladder as well. If overly acidic

urine is part of the problem, mullein leaf tea may help bring pH levels back toward normal. Mullein leaf also has

diuretic and antimicrobial properties.

应使用抗菌草药作为感染的预防措施，尤其是在排尿受到抑制的情况下。紫锥菊很好地满足了这个目

的。俄勒冈葡萄或经过认证的有机金印草可有效对抗细菌，并可作为膀胱中有效的抗炎剂。如果尿液过酸

是问题的一部分，毛蕊花茶可能有助于使 pH 值恢复正常。毛蕊花叶还具有利尿和抗菌特性。

=== PAGE 545 ===
URINARY SYSTEM INFECTIONS (CYSTITIS)

泌尿系统感染（膀胱炎）

Bacterial infection of the urinary tract is the most common infectious disease of dogs. At least 10 percent of all dogs

seen by veterinarians for any reason have a urinary tract infection. Symptoms may include fever, lethargy, backache,

painful urination (dysuria), frequent urination, and blood in the urine (hematuria). Causes are varied, but from a

holistic perspective the underlying question is always the same: Why was the animal’s body unable to effectively

ward off the infection in the first place?

泌尿道细菌感染是犬最常见的传染病。无论出于何种原因，兽医见过的所有狗中至少有 10% 患有尿路感

染。症状可能包括发烧、嗜睡、背痛、排尿疼痛（排尿困难）、尿频和尿中带血（血尿）。原因多种多

样，但从整体角度来看，根本问题始终是相同的：为什么动物的身体首先无法有效抵御感染？

In many cases, this question leads us back to diet, but other causes include immunological deficiency or bacterial,

fungal, or protozoan infection from bad water or food. Bladder stones, injury, or tumors may also be contributing

factors. In all cases, the focus of symptomatic herbal treatment is fundamentally the same—to assist the body at

repelling the infection-causing entities, relieve inflammation and discomfort, dilute urine, and encourage urination.

在许多情况下，这个问题会让我们回到饮食上，但其他原因包括免疫缺陷或由坏水或食物引起的细菌、

真菌或原生动物感染。膀胱结石、损伤或肿瘤也可能是促成因素。在所有情况下，对症草药治疗的重点基

本上都是相同的——帮助身体排斥引起感染的实体，缓解炎症和不适，稀释尿液并促进排尿。

Urinary tract infections may be caused by various forms of bacteria, fungi, or parasites that have entered the body

through the mouth or urethra. Feline lower urinary tract disease, or FLUTD (formerly known as feline urinary

syndrome, or FUS), is a nonspecific inflammatory problem that occurs in the bladder and urethra of cats. It is a

chronic form of cystitis characterized by high pH (excessively alkaline) urine. Tiny, sharpedged, struvite crystals

form in the lower urinary tract and adhere to the walls of the bladder and urethra, causing inflammation and

blockage. If left unchecked, they can develop into larger stones and cause severe and obstructive inflammatory

disease of the entire urinary system. A cat with FLUTD has an urge to urinate frequently, but because urine output is

greatly diminished by inflammation and accumulated crystals, he may be able to force out only a few drops at a

time. This is a very dangerous situation—if urine backs up in the ureters and into the kidneys, irreversible kidney

damage can result quickly.

尿路感染可能是由通过口腔或尿道进入体内的各种细菌、真菌或寄生虫引起的。猫下尿路疾病

（FLUTD）（以前称为猫尿路综合征（FUS））是一种发生在猫的膀胱和尿道中的非特异性炎症问题。它

是一种慢性膀胱炎，其特征是尿液 pH 值过高（过碱性）。微小的、锋利的鸟粪石晶体在下尿道中形成，并

粘附在膀胱和尿道壁上，引起炎症和阻塞。如果不加以控制，它们可能会发展成更大的结石，并导致整个

泌尿系统严重的阻塞性炎症性疾病。患有 FLUTD 的猫有频繁排尿的冲动，但由于炎症和积累的晶体大大减

少了尿量，因此他一次只能排出几滴。这是一种非常危险的情况——如果尿液回流到输尿管并进入肾脏，

很快就会造成不可逆转的肾脏损伤。

Diet must be closely scrutinized as a primary cause of FLUTD. Because cats are carnivores, they should receive a

large part of their daily water intake in the form of juicy raw meat. The process of metabolizing raw meat is essential

to the maintenance of healthy feline urine pH levels. When cats must subsist on a dry-food diet, their systems must

perform metabolic tasks that are beyond their natural design. Urine pH levels may become severely imbalanced,

setting the stage for stone formation and bacterial reproduction. In fact, studies conducted at Cornell University

strongly suggest that free-feeding dry foods may predispose cats to FUS. We along with a large percentage of

veterinarians agree. Also, setting mealtimes is better than free-feeding. A cat or dog who is able to snack and nibble

all day long is more likely to get a urinary infection, especially if the food is out of a bag or can.

饮食必须作为 FLUTD 的主要原因进行严格审查。因为猫是肉食动物，所以它们每天摄入的水的很大一部

分应该以多汁的生肉的形式摄入。生肉的代谢过程对于维持健康的猫尿液 pH 值至关重要。当猫必须靠干粮

生存时，它们的系统必须执行超出其自然设计的代谢任务。尿液 pH 值可能会严重失衡，为结石形成和细菌

繁殖创造条件。事实上，康奈尔大学进行的研究强烈表明，自由喂养干粮可能会使猫容易患 FUS。我们和

很大一部分兽医都同意这一点。此外，设定进餐时间比自由喂养更好。整天吃零食的猫或狗更有可能患上

泌尿道感染，尤其是当食物是从袋子或罐头里拿出来的时候。

=== PAGE 546 ===
The best advice for preventing FLUTD is this: If for whatever reason you cannot feed a raw food diet to your cat,

avoid dry kibble and feed a premium-quality, all-natural canned food to prevent your cat from developing urinary

problems. If your feline friend is already suffering from FLUTD, adjust or change his diet and take him to a vet to

determine whether his kidneys have been compromised. If they haven’t, the problem can be symptomatically

approached as a case of cystitis with astringent anti-inflammatory herbs such as uva ursi or pipsissewa combined

with the soothing mucilaginous properties of marshmallow and the disinfectant qualities of echinacea, garlic,

Oregon grape, or yarrow. If kidney involvement is evident, herbs with high concentrations of tannins or strong

volatile oils should be avoided. In such cases, corn silk, couch grass, plantain, nettle, shepherd’s purse, or raspberry

leaf serves as a safer astringent.

预防 FLUTD 的最佳建议是：如果出于某种原因您无法给您的猫喂食生食，请避免干粗粮并喂食优质的全

天然罐头食品，以防止您的猫出现泌尿系统问题。如果你的猫朋友已经患有 FLUTD，请调整或改变他的饮

食，并带他去看兽医，以确定他的肾脏是否受到损害。如果没有，可以将问题视为膀胱炎，使用收敛性抗

炎草药（如熊果或pipsissewa）结合棉花糖的舒缓粘液特性以及紫锥花、大蒜、俄勒冈葡萄或葡萄的消毒特

性来解决问题。西洋蓍草。如果肾脏受累明显，应避免使用含有高浓度单宁或强挥发油的草药。在这种情

况下，玉米须、茅草、车前草、荨麻、荠菜或覆盆子叶是更安全的收敛剂。

Some people and animals find relief from cystitis with cranberry juice or cranberry powder (emptied from

capsules) mixed in their food. Cranberry helps keep bacteria from adhering to the walls of the urethra and bladder.

But research has found that cranberry juice is effective only at preventing bladder infections, not curing them. In one

study, drinking 4–6 ounces of a commercial cranberry juice daily significantly prevented infections in a nursing

home population. Another study used doses ranging from 5 to 20 ounces a day (in humans), so for dogs or cats, an

ounce or so of cranberry juice or 1/4 teaspoon of the powder should serve as a nutritious, vitamin C–rich preventive

measure against infection.

有些人和动物通过将蔓越莓汁或蔓越莓粉（从胶囊中倒空）混入食物中来缓解膀胱炎。蔓越莓有助于防

止细菌粘附在尿道和膀胱壁上。但研究发现蔓越莓汁只能有效预防膀胱感染，而不能治愈膀胱感染。在一

项研究中，每天饮用 4-6 盎司市售蔓越莓汁可以显着预防疗养院人群的感染。另一项研究使用的剂量范围

为每天 5 至 20 盎司（人类），因此对于狗或猫来说，一盎司左右的蔓越莓汁或 1/4 茶匙的蔓越莓粉应该作

为一种营养丰富、富含维生素 C 的预防措施防止感染。

The symptomatic herbal approach to any form of urinary system infection centers on the use of herbs that directly

inhibit reproduction of the invading microbes. In most cases, Oregon grape, uva ursi, garlic, raspberry leaf, or

echinacea serves this purpose well. But always look at the whole health picture and never stop asking yourself why

the infection occurred in the first place. For example, animals with chronic gingivitis sometimes develop serious

kidney infections as a progressive result of a bacterial imbalance that originated from poor dental health or immune

system deficiency. Again we are brought back to diet. In carnivores, raw bones serve to keep the teeth clean and the

gums healthy; in herbivores, it’s raw, fiber-rich vegetables. The point is this: if your companion is suffering from a

urinary infection, don’t expect to find a long-term solution exclusively through the use of herbs. A holistic caregiver

must look deeper than the symptoms to find and eliminate the root causes of disease.

针对任何形式的泌尿系统感染的对症草药治疗方法都集中在使用直接抑制入侵微生物繁殖的草药。在大

多数情况下，俄勒冈葡萄、熊果、大蒜、覆盆子叶或紫锥菊都能很好地达到这一目的。但始终要审视整个

健康状况，永远不要停止问自己为什么会发生感染。例如，患有慢性牙龈炎的动物有时会出现严重的肾脏

感染，这是由于牙齿健康状况不佳或免疫系统缺陷而导致细菌失衡的渐进结果。我们再次恢复节食。对于

食肉动物来说，生骨头可以保持牙齿清洁和牙龈健康。对于食草动物来说，它是富含纤维的生蔬菜。重点

是：如果您的伴侣患有泌尿道感染，不要指望仅通过使用草药就能找到长期解决方案。全面的护理人员必

须比症状更深入地寻找并消除疾病的根本原因。

A BASIC FORMULA FOR URINARY INFECTIONS AND STONES
9

尿路感染和结石的基本配方
9

Make a strong tea or combine low-alcohol tinctures of the following ingredients. If possible, administer the

formula on an empty stomach, and encourage your companion to drink plenty of water.

泡一杯浓茶或混合以下成分的低酒精酊剂。如果可能，请空腹服用配方奶，并鼓励您的同伴多喝

水。

=== PAGE 547 ===
3 parts marshmallow root

3 份 棉花糖根

1 part couch grass

1 份沙发草

1 part nettle

1 份 荨麻

1 part echinacea

1 份 紫锥菊

1 part Oregon grape

1 份 俄勒冈葡萄

For dogs, feed 1 teaspoon (5 milliliters) of the cooled tea, twice daily, for each 30 pounds of body weight. Or

feed 1–2 milliliters of the low-alcohol combination tincture twice daily. For cats, feed ½ teaspoon (2.5

milliliters) of the cooled tea, twice daily, for each 30 pounds of body weight. Or feed 0.5–1 milliliter of the

low-alcohol tincture twice daily. Horses and other large animals can be given 200 milliliters of the cooled

tea, fed twice daily with a turkey baster or similar device. Or you can give 20–30 milliliters of the low-

alcohol tincture twice daily.

对于狗，每 30 磅体重喂 1 茶匙（5 毫升）冷茶，每天两次。或者每日两次喂食 1-2 毫升低酒精复方

酊剂。对于猫，每 30 磅体重喂 ½ 茶匙（2.5 毫升）冷茶，每天两次。或者每天两次喂食0.5-1毫升低

酒精酊剂。马和其他大型动物可以喝 200 毫升冷茶，每天用火鸡涂油器或类似装置喂食两次。或者

您可以每天两次服用 20-30 毫升的低酒精酊剂。

See the box on this page for a useful preparation for urinary system infection and stones.

请参阅本页上的方框，了解针对泌尿系统感染和结石的有用准备。

=== PAGE 548 ===
KIDNEY FAILURE

肾功能衰竭

Given the fragility of the kidneys and the extraordinary amount of hard work they do, it’s easy to understand why

they are often the first body structures to wear out in the later years of an animal’s life. However, an alarming

percentage of young and middle-aged animals succumb to kidney failure as well.

考虑到肾脏的脆弱性和它们所做的大量艰苦工作，很容易理解为什么它们往往是动物生命后期最先磨损的

身体结构。然而，年轻和中年动物也死于肾衰竭的比例惊人。

Kidney failure is often caused and is always compounded by a poor-quality or unbalanced diet. One contributing

factor is the overabundance of phosphorus in many commercial brands of dog and cat food. Some brands contain

five to nine times the required amount. While excess phosphorus is seldom an issue for animals with strong, healthy

kidneys, it can be problematic to animals with preexisting kidney damage, especially if they are receiving a diet that

does not contain a necessary balance of readily usable calcium. In these cases, the kidneys may not be able to

effectively eliminate the phosphorus, which then accumulates in the kidneys and results in the eventual formation of

stones or degeneration of kidney tissues. A variety of other problems, such as diabetes, immune system dysfunction,

long-term drug therapies, vaccinosis, chronic liver disease, and digestive problems, often develop as the kidney

damage progresses. The worst part of this grim picture is that the entire degenerative process can remain undetected

until the damage has progressed into an irreversible state of disease.

肾衰竭通常是由不良或不均衡的饮食引起的，并且总是由不良饮食引起的。影响因素之一是许多商业品

牌的狗粮和猫粮中磷含量过高。有些品牌的含量是所需量的五到九倍。虽然对于肾脏强壮、健康的动物来

说，过量的磷很少会成为问题，但对于已有肾脏损伤的动物来说，这可能会带来问题，特别是当它们的饮

食中不含有必要的可用钙平衡时。在这些情况下，肾脏可能无法有效清除磷，磷会积聚在肾脏中，最终导

致结石形成或肾组织退化。随着肾脏损伤的进展，还会出现各种其他问题，例如糖尿病、免疫系统功能障

碍、长期药物治疗、疫苗接种、慢性肝病和消化问题。这幅严峻图景中最糟糕的部分是，整个退化过程可

能一直未被发现，直到损伤发展成不可逆转的疾病状态。

Pinpointing the exact causes of kidney failure can be difficult. The kidneys are fragile and slow to heal, and in

cases of progressive kidney degeneration, time is of the essence. Therefore, holistic treatment of kidney failure must

begin with preventive dietary measures. If it’s too late for preventive measures, the problem is best approached as

early as possible.

查明肾衰竭的确切原因可能很困难。肾脏脆弱且愈合缓慢，在进行性肾脏退化的情况下，时间至关重

要。因此，肾衰竭的整体治疗必须从预防性饮食措施开始。如果采取预防措施为时已晚，最好尽早解决问

题。

If your companion is urinating excessively, drinking a lot of water, or has suffered from one or more urinary tract

infections or a bout with stones, take him to a holistic veterinarian for a thorough examination. If kidney damage is

found, chances are your companion will be placed on a reduced-protein, natural-food diet that is designed to

moderate urine pH levels. This helps alleviate some of the kidney’s workload, allowing the body to direct more

energy toward the healing process. Herbal therapy can then commence with tonic herbs that improve renal blood

circulation (ginkgo, hawthorn), reduce inflammation of nephritic (kidney) and other urinary tract tissues (couch

grass, marshmallow, corn silk), and gently increase urine output (nettle, dandelion, alfalfa, goldenrod). If infection is

part of the problem, nonirritating antimicrobials (Oregon grape, goldenseal) can be added as well. But extra care

must be taken to assure that the herbal therapy does not further irritate the animal’s condition. Avoid herbs that

contain large amounts of aromatic volatile oils (juniper, yarrow, members of the mint family) and those with

considerable amounts of tannins (uva ursi, white oak bark, black walnut hulls), especially if the kidneys are

inflamed.

如果您的同伴排尿过多、喝大量水、或者患有一种或多种尿路感染或结石发作，请带他去看全面兽医进

行彻底检查。如果发现肾脏受损，您的伴侣很可能会接受低蛋白质、天然食品的饮食，旨在调节尿液 pH

值。这有助于减轻肾脏的一些工作负荷，使身体能够将更多的能量用于治疗过程。然后，草药治疗可以从

改善肾脏血液循环的滋补草药（银杏、山楂）开始，减少肾炎（肾脏）和其他泌尿道组织的炎症（沙发

草、棉花糖、玉米须），并逐渐增加尿量（荨麻、蒲公英） 、苜蓿、黄花）。如果感染是问题的一部分，

=== PAGE 549 ===
也可以添加无刺激性的抗菌剂（俄勒冈葡萄、白毛茛）。但必须格外小心，以确保草药疗法不会进一步刺

激动物的状况。避免使用含有大量芳香挥发油的草药（杜松子、西洋蓍草、薄荷科植物）和含有大量单宁

的草药（熊果、白橡树皮、黑胡桃壳），尤其是在肾脏发炎的情况下。

Most traditional herbal approaches to kidney failure are centered on increasing diuresis (urine output) and

decreasing inflammation. But we have found better success when equal attention is placed on improving blood

circulation in the kidneys.

大多数治疗肾衰竭的传统草药方法都集中在增加利尿（排尿量）和减少炎症。但当我们同样重视改善肾

脏的血液循环时，我们会取得更好的成功。

A BASIC HERB FORMULA FOR EARLY STAGES OF KIDNEY

FAILURE

针对肾衰竭早期阶段的基本草药配方

Combine the tea or low-alcohol tinctures of the following:

混合下列茶或低酒精酊剂：

1 part hawthorn

山楂 1 份

1 part ginkgo

1份银杏

1 part echinacea

1 份 紫锥菊

1 part marshmallow

1 份 棉花糖

1 part dandelion leaf

1 份 蒲公英叶

For dogs, a good starting dose is 1 teaspoon (5 milliliters) of the cooled tea or 1 milliliter of the combined

tincture per 20 pounds of the animal’s body weight, twice daily, preferably given between meals and with

plenty of drinking water. For cats, start with 1 teaspoon (5 milliliters) of the cooled tea or 1 milliliter of the

combined tincture, twice daily, preferably given between meals and with plenty of drinking water. Horses

and large herbivores can receive 25 milliliters of the combined tincture diluted in 8 ounces (240 milliliters)

or more of water, twice daily, preferably between meals.

对于狗来说，一个好的起始剂量是每 20 磅动物体重 1 茶匙（5 毫升）冷茶或 1 毫升复方酊剂，每天

两次，最好在两餐之间服用，并与大量饮用水一起服用。对于猫，从 1 茶匙（5 毫升）冷茶或 1 毫升

混合酊剂开始，每天两次，最好在两餐之间服用，并与大量饮用水一起服用。马和大型食草动物可

以服用 25 毫升混合酊剂，稀释在 8 盎司（240 毫升）或更多的水中，每天两次，最好在两餐之间服

用。

A Holistic Herbal Approach to Kidney Failure: The Tilford Theory

治疗肾衰竭的整体草药方法：蒂尔福德理论

=== PAGE 550 ===
The fact that the kidneys are second only to the brain in terms of circulatory dependency is often overlooked when

treating kidney failure. If the blood flow to the kidneys is blocked by damaged or inflamed tissue, the kidneys will

die from lack of oxygen.

在治疗肾衰竭时，肾脏在循环依赖性方面仅次于大脑，这一事实经常被忽视。如果流向肾脏的血液被受损

或发炎的组织阻塞，肾脏就会因缺氧而死亡。

We have received several reports from veterinarians and pet owners who have seen promising results in the

treatment of early to midstage kidney failure in dogs and cats from use of a formula that combines anti-

inflammatory, immunostimulant, and, most important, circulatory tonic herbs. The theory behind this approach is

that the kidneys are critically oxygen dependent and made up of hundreds of blood vessels. They are sensitive to

blood-pressure disorders, vascular atony, and poor circulation. Through the use of hawthorn, increased renal

circulation is achieved without elevating blood pressure. At the same time, ginkgo dilates and improves tonicity of

nephritic blood vessels, improves blood return from the extremities, and helps reduce blood pressure in congested

tissues. The mucilage content of ginkgo also serves to reduce inflammation throughout the urinary tract and provides

a protective lubricating barrier for the passage of wastes. A small amount of garlic or echinacea helps keep bacteria

and fungi in check, marshmallow helps soothe and reduce inflammation, and dandelion leaf or the fresh juice of

parsley helps to increase urine output. Other herbs worth investigating in cases of kidney failure include alfalfa,

astragalus, goldenrod, and couch grass.

我们收到了来自兽医和宠物主人的几份报告，他们发现使用结合了抗炎、免疫刺激和最重要的循环滋补

草药的配方在治疗狗和猫的早期至中期肾衰竭方面取得了可喜的结果。这种方法背后的理论是，肾脏严重

依赖氧气，并且由数百条血管组成。他们对血压紊乱、血管紧张和血液循环不良很敏感。通过使用山楂，

可以增加肾循环而不升高血压。同时，银杏还能扩张和改善肾血管的张力，改善四肢的血液回流，并有助

于降低充血组织的血压。银杏的粘液含量还可以减少整个泌尿道的炎症，并为废物的通过提供保护性润滑

屏障。少量大蒜或紫锥菊有助于抑制细菌和真菌，棉花糖有助于舒缓和减少炎症，蒲公英叶或新鲜的欧芹

汁有助于增加尿量。其他值得研究治疗肾衰竭的草药包括苜蓿、黄芪、黄花和茅草。

=== PAGE 551 ===
URINARY INCONTINENCE

尿失禁

Urinary incontinence is fairly common in aging animals, spayed females (especially dogs), and in females who have

lost bladder tone as a result of multiple pregnancies. Urinary incontinence can also be triggered by nervous system

dysfunction, emotional disorders, inflammatory disease, or nutritional deficiency.

尿失禁在老年动物、绝育雌性（尤其是狗）以及因多胎妊娠而失去膀胱张力的雌性中相当常见。神经系统

功能障碍、情绪障碍、炎症性疾病或营养缺乏也可能引发尿失禁。

Identifying the exact cause of urinary incontinence can be challenging, and successful herbal treatment usually

depends on just how well the caregiver knows and understands his or her companion. Did the problem begin

suddenly, or has there been an occasional drop or two of urine in your companion’s bed from time to time in the

past? If the latter is true, a gradual degeneration of bladder tone could have been reversed early on. Does your

animal appear to be stiff after exercise, do her hind legs wobble when she stands after exercise, or does she seem to

be holding her rump lower when walking? If any of these are even slightly evident, then your companion may be

developing arthritis, hip dysplasia, or some other cause of nerve impairment that may be affecting the tone and

function of urinary tract muscles. This illustrates just how important a pet care diary can be. By keeping detailed

notes about subtle changes in your animal’s appearance, behavior, feeding habits, and physical performance, you

can detect trends that point to early stages of disease and that greatly simplify finding curative solutions.

确定尿失禁的确切原因可能具有挑战性，成功的草药治疗通常取决于护理人员对他或她的同伴的了解和

理解程度。问题是突然出现的，还是过去您同伴的床上偶尔有一两滴尿液？如果后者属实，膀胱张力的逐

渐退化可能会在早期得到逆转。您的动物在运动后是否显得僵硬，运动后站立时后腿是否摇晃，或者行走

时是否似乎将臀部压低？如果其中任何一个症状稍微明显，那么您的同伴可能患有关节炎、髋关节发育不

良或其他一些神经损伤原因，这些神经损伤可能会影响尿路肌肉的张力和功能。这说明了宠物护理日记的

重要性。通过详细记录动物的外观、行为、饮食习惯和身体表现的细微变化，您可以发现疾病早期阶段的

趋势，并大大简化寻找治疗解决方案的过程。

A TONIC FORMULA FOR URINARY INCONTINENCE

治疗尿失禁的滋补配方

Combine the following:

结合以下内容：

1 part oatstraw

1 份 燕麦草

1 part plantain

1 份 车前草

1 part corn silk

1份玉米丝

1 part nettle root or saw palmetto

1 份荨麻根或锯棕榈

1 part horsetail

1 份马尾

=== PAGE 552 ===
We like to use this formula in the form of a glycerin tincture because it’s easy to administer, but a tea is

equally effective. A good starting dose is 12–20 drops of the glycerite or 1 teaspoon of the strong tea for each

20 pounds of the animal’s body weight, twice daily.

我们喜欢以甘油酊剂的形式使用这种配方，因为它很容易服用，但茶也同样有效。一个好的起始剂

量是每 20 磅动物体重 12-20 滴甘油或 1 茶匙浓茶，每天两次。

In spayed females, normal hormone production is interrupted when the uterus and ovaries are removed during an

ovariohysterectomy. The bladder is composed of smooth-muscle groups that are functionally interdependent with a

balance of reproductive hormones, so when hormone production is altered, the bladder loses tone and urine dribble

results. Reversing this kind of incontinence is difficult because there is no way that herbs can replace hormones that

should be naturally produced by the body. Oatstraw and wild yam (Dioscorea villosa) contain estrogenic

(phytoestrogens) compounds. Theoretically, these herbs might help stimulate whatever hormone production is left

intact, and to some extent they might mimic natural hormone production enough to serve as a partial remedy for

incontinence. Although these herbs are safe in moderate doses, this approach is unreliable and may affect only

certain animals. The better approach toward hormone-related urinary incontinence applies to all forms of urinary

incontinence: strengthen and support the structure and function of the bladder sphincters and urinary smooth-muscle

tissues with long-term use of tonic herbs. Choices include corn silk, raspberry leaf, horsetail, saw palmetto, nettle

root, couch grass, uva ursi, agrimony, marshmallow, and plantain. Oatstraw can also be included for the

aforementioned purpose and as a nutritive diuretic.

在绝育的雌性中，当子宫和卵巢在卵巢子宫切除术中被切除时，正常的激素产生就会中断。膀胱由平滑

肌群组成，这些平滑肌群在功能上与生殖激素的平衡相互依赖，因此当激素产生改变时，膀胱会失去张力

并导致尿液滴落。扭转这种失禁是很困难的，因为草药无法替代身体自然产生的激素。燕麦草和野山药

（Dioscorea villosa）含有雌激素（植物雌激素）化合物。从理论上讲，这些草药可能有助于刺激任何完好

无损的激素产生，并且在某种程度上它们可能模仿天然激素的产生，足以作为失禁的部分治疗方法。尽管

这些草药在中等剂量下是安全的，但这种方法并不可靠，可能只影响某些动物。治疗激素相关性尿失禁的

更好方法适用于所有形式的尿失禁：通过长期使用滋补草药来加强和支持膀胱括约肌和泌尿道平滑肌组织

的结构和功能。选择包括玉米须、覆盆子叶、木贼、锯棕榈、荨麻根、茅草、熊果、仙鹤草、棉花糖和车

前草。也可以出于上述目的并作为营养利尿剂包含燕麦秆。

Urinary incontinence is sometimes caused by neurological disorders, especially in older animals who suffer from

senility and general debility. Oftentimes, epileptic animals have a problem with incontinence too. In these cases, we

can look toward cerebrotonics such as ginkgo and gotu kola to help bring relief. These herbs work to improve

synaptic (nerve impulse) transmission and blood circulation in the brain. Skullcap or valerian might help moderate

brain activities that are believed to trigger epileptic episodes and may also be instrumental in treating incontinence

of neurological origin. If emotional or behavioral disorders are part of the problem, Saint-John’s-wort might be

indicated.

尿失禁有时是由神经系统疾病引起的，尤其是患有衰老和全身虚弱的老年动物。通常，癫痫动物也有失

禁的问题。在这些情况下，我们可以使用银杏和积雪草等脑补剂来缓解症状。这些草药可以改善大脑中的

突触（神经冲动）传递和血液循环。黄芩或缬草可能有助于调节大脑活动，这些活动被认为会引发癫痫发

作，也可能有助于治疗神经性失禁。如果情绪或行为障碍是问题的一部分，则可能需要使用圣约翰草。

=== PAGE 553 ===
Glossary

词汇表

=== PAGE 554 ===
———A———

- -A - -

abortifacient: a substance that can cause abortion

堕胎剂：可导致堕胎的物质

acupoints: part of traditional Chinese medicine; points on the body that are sights where pressure is applied as in

acupressure or needles are inserted under the skin as in acupuncture

穴位：中医的一部分；身体上的穴位，是在指压按摩中施加压力的部位，或者是在针灸中将针插入皮肤下

的部位

adaptogen: a nontoxic substance that is believed to increase stamina and overall energy levels in the body,

especially in stressful conditions

适应原：一种无毒物质，被认为可以增加体内的耐力和整体能量水平，特别是在压力条件下

aerial parts: the aboveground portions of a plant

地上部分：植物的地上部分

allopathy (see homeopathy): the use of drugs or other means to antidote a disease or symptom in a manner not

necessarily cooperative with the body’s natural functions.

对抗疗法（参见顺势疗法）：使用药物或其他方法来解毒疾病或症状，但不一定与身体的自然功能相配

合。

alterative: an herb or other agent that gradually alters an existing condition in the body. A blood alterative is often

referred to as a blood cleanser because it alters the entrance of toxins and waste materials into the bloodstream, in

most cases through stimulation of liver function.

替代品：逐渐改变体内现有状况的草药或其他药剂。血液替代品通常被称为血液清洁剂，因为它可以改变

毒素和废物进入血液的方式，在大多数情况下是通过刺激肝功能。

alternate: describing leaves arranged along either side of a stem at various points but never directly opposite each

other across the stem

交替：描述沿着茎两侧不同点排列的叶子，但从不直接在茎上彼此相对

amebiasis: the state of being infected with amoebas, single-celled organisms that (in most cases) are introduced into

the body via raw food or drinking water

阿米巴病：被阿米巴原虫感染的状态，阿米巴原虫是一种单细胞生物，（在大多数情况下）通过生食或饮

用水进入体内

amine: an organic compound containing nitrogen

胺：含氮有机化合物

amoebicidal: kills certain types of amoebas

杀阿米巴：杀死某些类型的阿米巴原虫

analgesic: a pain-relieving substance

镇痛药：一种缓解疼痛的物质

anaphylactic: of, relating to, or causing anaphylaxis or anaphylactic shock

过敏性的：属于、有关或引起过敏反应或过敏性休克的

anaphylactic shock: severe and sometimes fatal immediate hypersensitivity (usually the result of allergy) that can

result in the inability to breathe

过敏性休克：严重且有时致命的立即过敏（通常是过敏的结果），可能导致无法呼吸

=== PAGE 555 ===
anesthetic: a substance that reduces painful sensitivity. Unlike general analgesics, anesthetics are often applied

locally. An injection of Novocaine at the dentist is a local anesthetic.

麻醉剂：一种降低疼痛敏感性的物质。与一般镇痛药不同，麻醉药通常是局部使用的。在牙医那里注射奴

佛卡因是一种局部麻醉剂。

anodyne: soothes pain

止痛药：缓解疼痛

annual: a plant that blooms, distributes its seeds, and then dies during its first and only year of growth. Annuals

depend solely on seeds for reproduction.

一年生植物：在生长的第一年也是唯一一年内开花、传播种子，然后死亡的植物。一年生植物仅依靠种子

进行繁殖。

anther: the pollen-bearing organ at the end of the stamen that is responsible for the distribution of pollen. The

anther is usually yellow or orange and is the part bees seek out.

花药：位于雄蕊末端的承载花粉的器官，负责花粉的传播。花药通常是黄色或橙色的，是蜜蜂寻找的部

分。

antibacterial: effective against bacteria

抗菌：有效对抗细菌

antibody: any of a variety of molecules that are synthesized by the body for the purpose of combating antigens

(toxins or other foreign substances)

抗体：身体为了对抗抗原（毒素或其他异物）而合成的任何一种分子

anticancer: used to fight or capable of stopping the spread of cancer

抗癌：用于对抗或能够阻止癌症的扩散

anticatarrhal: a substance capable of assisting the body in eliminating excess mucus from the upper respiratory

tract through anti-inflammatory actions on the mucous membranes that are responsible for the secretions

抗卡他药：一种能够通过对负责分泌物的粘膜产生抗炎作用来帮助身体消除上呼吸道多余粘液的物质

antidermatitic: active against various skin problems

抗皮药：有效对抗各种皮肤问题

antiemetic: helps alleviate vomiting

止吐剂：有助于缓解呕吐

antigenic proteins: chemical compounds of protein molecular structure that trigger an inflammatory response upon

contacting or entering the body

抗原蛋白：蛋白质分子结构的化合物，在接触或进入人体时引发炎症反应

antihydrotic: capable of preventing or inhibiting perspiration

抗水：能够防止或抑制排汗

anti-inflammatory: decreases inflammation

抗炎：减少炎症

antilithic: prevents the formation or aids in the elimination of gravel, or stones, in the urinary system

抗石器：防止泌尿系统中砾石或结石的形成或帮助消除砾石或结石

antimicrobial: helps the body to resist, inhibit, or destroy pathogenic microbes. In holistic medicine, this term

generally describes actions that assist the body in fighting bacteria, fungi, or viruses at their original point of

infection.

抗菌：帮助身体抵抗、抑制或消灭病原微生物。在整体医学中，这个术语通常描述帮助身体在细菌、真菌

或病毒的原始感染点抵抗的行为。

antioxidant: a substance that controls or eliminates free radicals or reduces cellular oxidation in the body

=== PAGE 556 ===
抗氧化剂：控制或消除自由基或减少体内细胞氧化的物质

antiparasitic: anything that expels, repels, kills, or inhibits reproduction of parasites

抗寄生虫药：任何能够驱除、驱除、杀死或抑制寄生虫繁殖的物质

antiplatelet: a compound that inhibits platelet activity in the blood, usually resulting in anticoagulant activity

抗血小板药物：一种抑制血液中血小板活性的化合物，通常会产生抗凝活性

antipyretic: an agent capable of reducing fever

解热剂：能够退烧的药物

antirheumatic: an agent capable of relieving the symptoms of rheumatic conditions such as rheumatoid arthritis

抗风湿药：能够缓解风湿病（例如类风湿性关节炎）症状的药物

antiseptic: a substance that kills or inhibits the growth of pathogenic microbes. In holistic medicine, this term

describes substances that interfere with bacterial infections regardless of the body’s natural abilities to do so. In this

context, antiseptic herbs are applied as allopathic remedies.

防腐剂：杀死病原微生物或抑制病原微生物生长的物质。在整体医学中，这个术语描述的是干扰细菌感染

的物质，无论人体的自然能力如何。在这种情况下，抗菌草药被用作对抗疗法。

antitussive: capable of suppressing coughs

镇咳药：能够抑制咳嗽

anthelmintic: kills or expels worms

驱虫药：杀死或驱除蠕虫

astringent: capable of tightening the soft tissues of the body. Astringent herbs are used to stop bleeding, reduce

inflammation, and stop diarrhea.

收敛：能够收紧身体的软组织。收敛草药用于止血、消炎和止腹泻。

awn: a slender, stiff bristle, usually occurring at the end of a plant stem

芒：细长、坚硬的鬃毛，通常出现在植物茎的末端

axil: the junction where a petiole or peduncle joins the stem of a plant

腋：叶柄或花序梗与植物茎的连接处

axillary flowers: flowers presented at the leaf axils

腋花：花出现在叶腋上

=== PAGE 557 ===
———B———

bacteriostatic: specifically acting to inhibit the multiplication of bacteria

抑菌：特异性抑制细菌繁殖

basal: referring to the base of something. Basal leaves are found at the extreme lower end of a plant. They are

usually the first true leaves to appear after germination.

basal：指某事物的基础。基生叶位于植物的最下端。它们通常是发芽后出现的第一片真叶。

biennial: a plant that blooms only during its second year of growth and then dies

两年生植物：仅在生长的第二年开花然后死亡的植物

biotin: a water-soluble dicyclic monocarboxylic acid considered to be part of the vitamin B complex

生物素：一种水溶性双环单羧酸，被认为是维生素 B 复合物的一部分

bitter: stimulates salivation and improves digestion

苦味：刺激唾液分泌并改善消化

bitter tonic: a substance that stimulates digestive functions, first in the mouth and later in the stomach and liver.

Bitter tonics are traditionally used to aid digestion.

苦味补品：一种刺激消化功能的物质，首先在口腔中，然后在胃和肝脏中。苦味补品传统上用于帮助消

化。

bracts: modified or reduced leaflets usually associated with the flower of a plant; often located beneath the petals

苞片：通常与植物的花相关的修饰或减少的小叶；通常位于花瓣下方

=== PAGE 558 ===
———C———

- -C - -

candida: any of a yeastlike genus (Candida) of fungi that inhabit the vagina or digestive tract (or both) that under

certain conditions may cause candidiasis, an acute or chronic fungal infection

念珠菌：居住在阴道或消化道（或两者）的任何酵母样真菌属（念珠菌），在某些条件下可能引起念珠菌

病，一种急性或慢性真菌感染

capsaicin: the primary active component of cayenne pepper (Capsicum spp.). Capsaicin may represent as much as

48 percent of the fruit’s chemical makeup.

辣椒素：辣椒（Capsicum spp.）的主要活性成分。辣椒素可能占水果化学成分的 48%。

carcinogen: a substance or agent that promotes the formation or growth of cancer

致癌物：促进癌症形成或生长的物质或制剂

cardiac tonic: an agent capable of strengthening the heart muscle or stimulating heartbeat (or both) in a manner

beneficial to body functions

强心剂：能够以有益于身体功能的方式增强心肌或刺激心跳（或两者）的药剂

cardiotonic: tending to strengthen the heart

强心剂：倾向于增强心脏功能

carminative: aids in the expulsion of gas from the digestive tract

驱风剂：帮助排出消化道中的气体

carrier (for an herb): a compound or group of compounds that serve to transport the medicinally active

components of a plant to various portions of the body

载体（用于草药）：一种或一组化合物，用于将植物的药用活性成分运输到身体的各个部位

catarrh: excessive secretion of thick phlegm or mucus from inflamed mucus membranes (see anticatarrhal)

卡他：发炎的粘膜分泌过多的浓痰或粘液（参见抗卡他）

cathartic: a strong laxative

泻药：强泻药

cerebrovascular: of or involving the veins, arteries, and capillaries of the brain

脑血管：属于或涉及大脑的静脉、动脉和毛细血管

chambered fruits: fruits with a seed-bearing structure that contains more than one seed-containing chamber

有室水果：具有含种子结构的水果，其中包含多个含种子室

chlorophyll: a green pigment found in plants that enables them to photosynthesize

叶绿素：植物中发现的一种绿色色素，使植物能够进行光合作用

cholagogue: a substance that stimulates bile production in the liver

利胆剂：刺激肝脏产生胆汁的物质

choleretic effects: stimulation of bile production in the liver

利胆作用：刺激肝脏产生胆汁

Crohn’s disease: a chronic granulomatous inflammatory disease of unknown cause involving the gastrointestinal

tract; also called regional enteritis or ileitis

克罗恩病：一种累及胃肠道、原因不明的慢性肉芽肿性炎症性疾病；也称为区域性肠炎或回肠炎

coagulant: a substance capable of promoting blood clotting, converting blood from a liquid to a semisolid state

=== PAGE 559 ===
凝血剂：能够促进血液凝固、将血液从液态转变为半固态的物质

compound: a leaf composed of multiple small leaf segments, often pinnately arranged pairs of leaflets

复合叶：由多个小叶段组成的叶子，通常呈羽状排列的小叶对

conifers: trees and shrubs that bear their flowers and fruits in the form of scaly, conelike structures; includes all

members of the fir, pine, and cypress families

针叶树：以鳞片状圆锥状结构开花和结出果实的树木和灌木；包括冷杉、松树和柏树科的所有成员

constituent: a single element or a compound ingredient that is part of a whole. A medicinal constituent in a plant is

an element or compound that makes the plant medicinally useful.

成分：作为整体一部分的单一元素或复合成分。植物中的药用成分是使植物具有药用价值的元素或化合

物。

contraindication: any condition, especially any condition of disease, that renders some particular line of treatment

improper or undesirable. Herbs can be contraindicated for use in certain situations.

禁忌症：任何导致某些特定治疗方案不适当或不可取的状况，尤其是任何疾病状况。在某些情况下可能禁

止使用草药。

counterirritant: an irritant that distracts attention away from another irritant. Usually applied externally. A deep-

heating, mentholated muscle ointment is a counterirritant to the discomfort of aching muscles.

反刺激物：一种刺激物，可以分散人们对另一种刺激物的注意力。通常外用。深层加热的薄荷醇肌肉软膏

可以缓解肌肉酸痛的不适。

coumarin: a principle with a bitter taste and an odor resembling that of vanilla beans, derived from tonka bean, red

clover, and other plants and also prepared synthetically. Coumarin contains a factor that inhibits the hepatic

synthesis of vitamin K–dependent coagulation factors, and a number of its derivatives are used as anticoagulants in

the treatment of disorders in which there is excessive or undesirable clotting.

香豆素：一种具有苦味和类似香草豆气味的物质，源自零陵香豆、红三叶草和其他植物，也可以合成制

备。香豆素含有一种抑制维生素 K 依赖性凝血因子的肝脏合成的因子，其许多衍生物被用作抗凝血剂，用

于治疗过度或不良凝血的疾病。

cultivar: a variety of a plant species originating and continuing in cultivation and given a name in a modern

language

栽培品种：源自并持续栽培并以现代语言命名的各种植物物种

cystitis: inflammation of the bladder

膀胱炎：膀胱发炎

cytokines: a generic term for nonantibody proteins released by certain cells on contact with specific antigens.

Cytokines act as intercellular mediators, as in the generation of an immune response.

细胞因子：某些细胞与特定抗原接触时释放的非抗体蛋白的通用术语。细胞因子在免疫反应的产生中充当

细胞间介质。

=== PAGE 560 ===
———D———

deciduous: seasonally losing leaves once a year at the end of the growing season

落叶：每年在生长季节结束时季节性落叶一次

decoction: an herbal preparation made by simmering plant material in water until maximum extraction of active

constituents is achieved. This process is usually used for roots, barks, and seeds that are not water soluble enough

for use in simple infusions (teas).

汤剂：一种草药制剂，通过将植物材料在水中煮沸直至最大程度地提取活性成分而制成。此过程通常用于

水溶性不足以用于简单输液（茶）的根、树皮和种子。

demulcent: a substance that provides a protective coating and is soothing to irritated tissues in the body

缓和剂：一种提供保护层并舒缓体内受刺激组织的物质

dermatitis: inflammation of the skin

皮炎：皮肤炎症

diaphoretic: a substance capable of stimulating perspiration

发汗剂：能够刺激排汗的物质

digestive tonic: a substance that aids the digestion

消化补品：帮助消化的物质

disk: the central circular portion of a flower head

花盘：头状花序的中央圆形部分

diuresis: the process by which the body eliminates waste and excesses through kidney function and subsequent

urination

利尿：身体通过肾功能和随后的排尿消除废物和多余物质的过程

diuretic: a substance that stimulates diuresis

利尿剂：刺激利尿的物质

=== PAGE 561 ===
———E———

edema: usually a fluid-filled swelling

水肿：通常是充满液体的肿胀

elliptical: relating to an oval shape with opposite ends that are equal in diameter; not egg shaped but like a flattened

circle

椭圆形的：与两端直径相等的椭圆形有关；不是蛋形而是像一个扁平的圆形

emetic: a substance that induces vomiting

催吐剂：引起呕吐的物质

emmenagogue: a substance that promotes menstruation

调经剂：促进月经的物质

emollient: a substance that soothes, protects, and softens the skin; the external counterpart to a demulcent

润肤剂：舒缓、保护和软化皮肤的物质；镇静剂的外部对应物

estrogenic: affects estrogen production in the body

雌激素：影响体内雌激素的产生

exogenous growth hormones: hormones that the body does not produce but receives via food or other external

sources

外源性生长激素：身体不产生但通过食物或其他外部来源接收的激素

expectorant: a substance that helps expel mucus from the respiratory tract

祛痰剂：帮助排出呼吸道粘液的物质

=== PAGE 562 ===
———F———

- -F - -

febrifuge: fever reducing

退烧药：退烧

flavonoid: a chemical compound found in various forms in several plants. Flavonoid constituents are responsible for

a wide range of medicinal actions and are generally responsible for the pigmentation of various red, yellow, or

purple fruits. Also known as a bioflavonoid.

类黄酮：一种在多种植物中以多种形式存在的化合物。类黄酮成分具有广泛的药用作用，并且通常导致各

种红色、黄色或紫色水果的色素沉着。也称为生物类黄酮。

flower essence: usually made from flower petals that are floated on top of spring water in a crystal bowl in the

sunshine for a specified period of time, after which the water is filtered off, bottled, and brandy is added as a

preservative. Also called flower remedy.

花精：通常由漂浮在水晶碗中的泉水中的花瓣在阳光下放置指定时间制成，然后将水过滤，装瓶，并添加

白兰地作为防腐剂。又称花药。

fodder crops: cultivated plants that are used as livestock feed

饲料作物：用作牲畜饲料的栽培植物

fomentation: treatment by a warm and moist application; similar to a poultice

热敷：通过温热和湿润的应用进行治疗；类似于膏药

formic acid: an acid compound that is known to cause a burning and tingling sensation as well as blistering when

applied to skin or other body tissues. Formic acid is primarily responsible for the well-known sting that is induced

by red ants.

甲酸：一种酸性化合物，涂在皮肤或其他身体组织上时会引起灼烧感和刺痛感以及起泡。众所周知，红蚂

蚁引起的蜇伤主要是由甲酸造成的。

fungicide: a substance that helps kill fungi

杀菌剂：有助于杀死真菌的物质

=== PAGE 563 ===
———G———

- -G - -

galactagogue: anything that stimulates milk production

催乳剂：任何刺激产奶的东西

genitourinary: having to do with the genital and urinary organs

泌尿生殖系统：与生殖器和泌尿器官有关

glabrous: having a surface that lacks hairs, a characteristic of certain plant stems and leaves

无毛：表面无毛，是某些植物茎和叶的特征

grand mal seizures: the spasms and convulsions produced by a severe epileptic episode; an “epileptic fit”

癫痫大发作：严重癫痫发作引起的痉挛和抽搐； “癫痫发作”

=== PAGE 564 ===
———H———

- -H - -

Heinz-body anemia: a condition that causes deformation of red corpuscles, diminishing the blood’s capacity to

collect and transport oxygen and nutrients throughout the body

亨氏体贫血：一种导致红细胞变形、降低血液收集和运输氧气和营养物质到全身的能力的疾病

hematoma: a localized collection of blood, usually clotted, in an organ, space, or tissue due to the break in the wall

of a blood vessel

血肿：由于血管壁破裂而导致的局部血液聚集，通常在器官、空间或组织中凝结

hemostatic: stops bleeding. Most herbal hemostatic substances work by astringent actions.

止血：止血。大多数草药止血物质通过收敛作用发挥作用。

hepatic: relating to or associated with the liver

肝脏的：与肝脏有关或相关的

hepatotonic: strengthens liver function

补肝：增强肝功能

hepatotoxic: toxic to the liver

肝毒性：对肝脏有毒

hips: the swollen, ripened, seed-producing portion of a rose flower head

臀部：玫瑰花头的肿胀、成熟、产生种子的部分

homeopathy: a modality of healing founded by Samuel Hahnemann in the late 1700s. The science of homeopathy

involves a meticulous diagnostic investigation of an individual’s physical, behavioral, and historical state of being,

after which a remedy is tailored to the specific needs of the individual. Homeopathic remedies are composed of

organic or nonorganic compounds that are diluted from their original strength hundreds or even thousands of times.

The goal of homeopathic medicine is to effect a desired physical or psychological response by stimulating body

systems at very low, perhaps even molecular levels. Often, a “like versus like” approach is employed, such as when

the homeopathic remedy Arsenicum, an extremely dilute preparation of arsenic, is used to counter a disease that

produces symptoms similar to those of arsenic poisoning.

顺势疗法：Samuel Hahnemann 在 1700 年代末创立的一种治疗方式。顺势疗法的科学涉及对个人的身体、

行为和历史状态进行细致的诊断调查，然后根据个人的具体需求制定治疗方案。顺势疗法由有机或无机化

合物组成，这些化合物被稀释了数百甚至数千倍。顺势疗法的目标是通过在非常低的甚至分子水平上刺激

身体系统来达到所需的身体或心理反应。通常，会采用“同类对同类”的方法，例如当使用顺势疗法药物砷

（一种极其稀释的砷制剂）来对抗产生与砷中毒类似症状的疾病时。

homeostasis: a maintained state of health in which all checks and balances between interdependent elements of

mind, body, and spirit are functioning harmoniously

体内平衡：一种维持的健康状态，其中思想、身体和精神相互依存的要素之间的所有制衡都和谐地发挥作

用

hybridize: to genetically alter a plant species in such a way that inhibits or eliminates the plant’s abilities to

reproduce by natural means

杂交：以抑制或消除植物自然繁殖能力的方式对植物物种进行基因改变

hydroquinones: reduced form of quinone, containing two hydroxyl groups (sometimes used as an antioxidant)

对苯二酚：醌的还原形式，含有两个羟基（有时用作抗氧化剂）

hyperlipidemia: elevated concentrations of lipids in plasma; elevated blood fats

=== PAGE 565 ===
高脂血症：血浆中脂质浓度升高；血脂升高

hyperthyroidism: overactive functioning of the thyroid gland

甲状腺功能亢进症：甲状腺功能过度活跃

hypothyroidism: depressed thyroid function

甲状腺功能减退症：甲状腺功能低下

hypotension: low blood pressure

低血压：低血压

hypotensive: capable of reducing blood pressure

低血压：能够降低血压

=== PAGE 566 ===
———I———

- -我 - -

immune modulator: an herb that acts to help the immune system by optimizing it’s ability to adjust to stressful

circumstances. Often used synonymously with the term immunostimulant, immune modulator is becoming more

common in herbalists’ vocabulary as more is learned about how certain immune-supporting herbs work in the body.

免疫调节剂：一种草药，通过优化免疫系统适应压力环境的能力来帮助免疫系统。随着人们对某些免疫支

持草药在体内如何发挥作用的了解越来越多，免疫调节剂经常与免疫刺激剂同义使用，在草药学家的词汇

中变得越来越常见。

immunostimulant: an herb that strengthens the body’s resistance to infection by stimulating and increasing immune

system responses. In herbal medicine, this term specifically refers to the medicinal support of infection-fighting

antibodies in the bloodstream and overall tonification of the lymph system.

免疫刺激剂：一种通过刺激和增强免疫系统反应来增强人体对感染的抵抗力的草药。在草药中，这个术语

特指血液中抗感染抗体的药物支持和淋巴系统的整体强化。

immunotonic: an herb that strengthens the immune system

免疫补剂：一种增强免疫系统的草药

infusion: a preparation made by pouring boiling water over herbs and allowing them to steep; a tea

浸剂：将沸水倒在草药上并让其浸泡而制成的制剂；一杯茶

interleukin: a generic term for a group of multifunctional cytokines that are produced by a variety of lymphoid and

nonlymphoid cells and whose effects occur at least partly within the lymphopoietic system

白细胞介素：一组多功能细胞因子的通用术语，由多种淋巴和非淋巴细胞产生，其作用至少部分发生在淋

巴细胞生成系统内

isoflavone: a flavone compound (e.g., flavonoids) with molecular structures that contribute steroidal properties to a

plant

异黄酮：一种黄酮化合物（例如类黄酮），其分子结构可为植物提供类固醇特性

=== PAGE 567 ===
———K———

ketogenic diet: a high-fat diet that is believed to help in certain cases of epilepsy in humans

生酮饮食：一种高脂肪饮食，被认为对人类某些癫痫症有帮助

kinesiology: the study of body motion. In holistic medicine, kinesiology is used as a diagnostic tool involving the

observation and analysis of physical responses to touch, questioning, or other stimuli; the manner in which the body

responds to the stimuli is used to determine the existence and nature of illness.

运动机能学：对身体运动的研究。在整体医学中，运动机能学被用作一种诊断工具，涉及观察和分析对触

摸、询问或其他刺激的身体反应；身体对刺激的反应方式用于确定疾病的存在和性质。

=== PAGE 568 ===
———L———

lignan: an organic cellulose-like substance that acts as a binder for the cellulose fibers in wood and certain plants

and adds strength and stiffness to cell walls

木脂素：一种类似纤维素的物质，可作为木材和某些植物中纤维素纤维的粘合剂，并增加细胞壁的强度和

刚度

linear: long and narrow. Referring to leaf characteristics, a linear leaf is too narrow to be considered narrowly lance

shaped and instead resembles a blade of grass.

线性：又长又窄。就叶子特征而言，线性叶子太窄，不能被视为狭长的矛状，而是类似于草叶。

loam: rich soil composed of clay, sand, and organic matter

壤土：由粘土、沙子和有机质组成的肥沃土壤

lobed: referring to leaf characteristics, a lobed leaf has margins (outer edges) that are deeply indented in two or

more places but not as deeply as a palmate leaf (e.g., maple leaves).

浅裂叶：指的是叶子特征，浅裂叶的边缘（外边缘）有两个或多个地方深深地凹进，但不如掌状叶（例如

枫叶）深。

lymph system: the system of the body responsible for the cleansing of tissues and the production of various

antibodies and white blood cells

淋巴系统：负责清洁组织并产生各种抗体和白细胞的身体系统

lymphocytes: any of the mononuclear, nonphagocytic leukocytes found in the blood, lymph, and lymphoid tissues

that are the body’s immunologically competent cells and their precursors

淋巴细胞：血液、淋巴液和淋巴组织中发现的任何单核、非吞噬性白细胞，是人体的免疫活性细胞及其前

体

=== PAGE 569 ===
———M———

marc: the solid plant material that remains of an herb preparation after the liquid (tincture, extract, etc.) has been

pressed off

果渣：草药制剂在液体（酊剂、提取物等）被压出后剩余的固体植物材料

margin: the outer edges of a leaf

margin：叶子的外边缘

MAOI: see monoamine oxidase inhibitor

MAOI：参见单胺氧化酶抑制剂

medicinal action: any of a variety of terms used to describe the effect that an herb, or other substance that may be

considered therapeutic, has on or in the body

药用作用：用于描述草药或其他可能被认为具有治疗作用的物质对身体或体内的作用的各种术语中的任何

一个

menstruum: the solvent used to extract plant constituents in making an extract or tincture; a solvent medium

溶剂：用于提取植物成分以制备提取物或酊剂的溶剂；溶剂介质

microbe: a microscopic organism, including various bacteria, viruses, fungi, and protozoa

微生物：微生物，包括各种细菌、病毒、真菌和原生动物

modality: the employment of, or the method of employment of, a therapeutic agent or a set of ideas or principles

形式：治疗剂的使用或使用方法或一组想法或原则

monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI): any of a variety of chemical substances that inhibit the activities of

monoamine oxidase (MAO), an enzyme that is thought to regulate the production of certain antidepressive or

antihistamine chemicals in the body. By blocking the activities of MAO with an MAOI, the body’s production of

seratonin, epinephrine, or histamine is increased to bring about antidepressive effects or other therapeutic results.

单胺氧化酶抑制剂 (MAOI)：抑制单胺氧化酶 (MAO) 活性的多种化学物质中的一种，这种酶被认为可以调

节体内某些抗抑郁或抗组胺化学物质的产生。通过用 MAOI 阻断 MAO 的活性，身体会增加血清素、肾上

腺素或组胺的产生，从而产生抗抑郁作用或其他治疗效果。

monocyte: a large, nongranular white blood cell with a single round or egg-shaped nucleus

单核细胞：具有单个圆形或蛋形核的大型非颗粒白细胞

montane: of or relating to mountainous terrain

山地的：属于山区的或与山区有关的

mucilage: a sticky, oily substance often used in herbal medicine to soothe and protect irritated tissues

粘液：一种粘性油状物质，常用于草药中以舒缓和保护受刺激的组织

mucilaginous: of, relating to, or secreting mucilage. Mucilaginous herbs are generally used as emollients or

demulcents.

粘液的：属于、与粘液有关或分泌粘液的。粘液草药通常用作润肤剂或缓和剂。

=== PAGE 570 ===
———N———

———不———

navicular syndrome: inflammation of connective tissues of the navicular joint (in the forefoot) of a horse; also

known as navicular disease

舟状综合症：马的舟状关节（前足）的结缔组织炎症；也称为舟状疾病

nephritic: of or relating to the kidneys

肾病的：属于肾脏的或与肾脏有关的

nephritis: inflammation of the kidney

肾炎：肾脏炎症

vine: a substance that affects the nervous system

藤蔓：一种影响神经系统的物质

noxious weed: a plant species that many people generally hate and want to eradicate

有毒杂草：许多人普遍讨厌并希望根除的植物物种

nutritive: nourishing

营养：滋补

=== PAGE 571 ===
———O———

———哦———

opposite: leaves arranged directly across from each other at regular intervals along the stem of a plant

对生：叶子沿着植物的茎以规则的间隔直接相对排列

ovate: oval shaped

卵形：椭圆形

oxalate: a salt of oxalic acid. Calcium oxalate stones are a type of urinary calculi. (See struvite)

草酸盐：草酸盐。草酸钙结石是泌尿系结石的一种。 （参见鸟粪石）

oxytocic: induces contractions

催产作用：引起宫缩

=== PAGE 572 ===
———P———

palmate: resembling the shape of the human hand with fingers extended. A palmate leaf has margins deeply

indented nearly to its base. (See lobed)

掌状：类似于人手手指伸展的形状。掌状叶的边缘深深地凹进，接近其基部。 （见叶状）

pathogen: any disease-causing microorganism

病原体：任何致病微生物

pathogenic microbes: microscopic organisms that act negatively on or in the body; harmful, infectious bacteria,

fungi, and viruses are all pathogenic microbes.

病原微生物：对人体或体内产生负面作用的微生物；有害的、传染性的细菌、真菌和病毒都是病原微生

物。

pedicel: flower stem

花梗：花茎

peduncle: the stemlike structure that holds the fruit or flower of a plant, commonly known as a pedicel

花梗：容纳植物果实或花的茎状结构，通常称为花梗

perennial: a plant that returns from its rootstock year after year. Perennials reproduce by seed and root

reproduction.

多年生植物：年复一年从砧木中回归的植物。多年生植物通过种子和根繁殖来繁殖。

peristalsis: the involuntary wave-type motion of the alimentary canal contracting to propel waste through and out of

the body

蠕动：消化道收缩以推动废物通过并排出体外的不自觉的波浪式运动

petals: the bractlike inner segments of a flower; usually the most colorful part of the flower

花瓣：花朵的苞片状内部部分；通常是花朵最鲜艳的部分

petiole: the stemlike structure of a plant leaf that connects the leaf to the stalk, branch, or true stem of the plant;

sometimes referred to as a leaf stem

叶柄：植物叶子的茎状结构，将叶子连接到植物的茎、枝或真茎；有时称为叶茎

pH: a numerical measurement of acidity or alkalinity. Relating to soil, a pH level of 7.0 is regarded as neutral; lower

numbers indicate increasing acidity, higher numbers indicate increasing alkalinity.

pH：酸度或碱度的数值测量。就土壤而言，pH值7.0被视为中性；较低的数字表示酸度增加，较高的数字表

示碱度增加。

phytoestrogenic principles: chemical components of a plant that are similar to estrogen produced in an animal’s

body, or that mimic or stimulate estrogen functions in the body

植物雌激素原理：植物的化学成分与动物体内产生的雌激素相似，或者模仿或刺激体内雌激素的功能

pinnate: a compound leaf pattern in which leaflets are arranged in opposing pairs along two sides of an axis

羽状：一种复合叶型，小叶沿轴两侧相对成对排列

pipette: a small piece of apparatus used to insert a rectal suppository; or a dropper used for drawing fluid

移液管：用于插入直肠栓剂的小器具；或用于吸取液体的滴管

polysaccharide: a carbohydrate, which on hydrolysis yields a large number of monosaccharide. Polysaccharides are

present in many species of plants, often serving as medicinally active components (e.g., the polysaccharide

constituents of Echinacea spp. are partly responsible for the immunotonic activities of the plants).

多糖：一种碳水化合物，水解后产生大量单糖。多糖存在于多种植物中，通常作为药用活性成分（例如，

紫锥菊属的多糖成分部分负责植物的免疫调节活性）。

=== PAGE 573 ===
potentiate: to make stronger, quicker to act, or more effective

增强：使更强大、行动更快或更有效

potentiating adjunct: an herb substance that can be added to an herbal medicine to make the herbal medicine

stronger, quicker to act, or more therapeutically effective

增效辅助剂：一种草药物质，可以添加到草药中，使草药功效更强、起效更快或更有效

poultice: an herbal preparation made by mashing plant materials with a liquid (usually water) to form a wet paste

膏药：一种草药制剂，通过将植物材料与液体（通常是水）捣碎形成湿糊状物制成

probiotics: friendly bacteria or enzymes that serve to support natural digestive functions within the body

益生菌：有助于支持体内自然消化功能的友好细菌或酶

psychotropic drug: a drug that affects the mental state of the subject receiving it

精神药物：影响服用者精神状态的药物

pulegone: a flea-killing insecticidal chemical compound most notably found in pennyroyal (Mentha pulegium)

胡薄荷酮：一种杀跳蚤的杀虫化合物，主要存在于薄荷醇（Mentha pulegium）中

purgative: an extremely, perhaps violently, strong laxative with uncontrollable effects. Purgatives generally cause

abdominal cramping and near-incontinent conditions. They are usually reserved by herbalists for use only in dire

circumstances.

泻药：一种极其强烈的泻药，可能具有无法控制的作用。泻药通常会导致腹部绞痛和近乎失禁的情况。它

们通常被草药师保留，只在紧急情况下使用。

=== PAGE 574 ===
———R———

rabies miasm: the chronic result of rabies vaccinations; it is believed to be passed down through successive

generations

狂犬病瘴气：狂犬病疫苗接种的慢性结果；据信它是代代相传的

ray: the extended bladelike petal of a ray flower rhizome: an underground plant stem that extends itself horizontally

and produces shoots above and roots below. Crabgrass is an excellent example of a rhizomatous plant.

射线：射线花的延伸叶片状花瓣 根茎：水平延伸的地下植物茎，在上面产生芽，在下面产生根。马唐是根

茎植物的一个很好的例子。

riparian habitat: an ecosystem in proximity to a consistent source of water (such as floodplains, stream banks,

lakeshores, and marshes)

河岸栖息地：靠近稳定水源的生态系统（例如洪泛区、河岸、湖岸和沼泽）

rosette: a cluster of leaves that emerges in an overlay pattern resembling the shape of a rose flower

玫瑰花结：一簇叶子，以类似于玫瑰花形状的重叠图案出现

rotenone: an insecticidal compound found in the flowers of mullein (Verbascum thapsis) and in the leaves and

flowers of various other plants

鱼藤酮：一种存在于毛蕊花（Verbascum thapsis）花和其他各种植物的叶和花中的杀虫化合物

rubefacient: a substance that reddens and heats the skin when applied topically

rubefacient：一种局部使用时会使皮肤变红和发热的物质

=== PAGE 575 ===
———S———

saponin: a glycoside (soaplike) plant compound. Although many types of saponins have medicinally useful

properties, many may be irritating to the digestive tract and cause toxic reactions if ingested.

皂苷：一种糖苷（皂状）植物化合物。尽管许多类型的皂苷具有药用特性，但许多皂苷可能会刺激消化道

并在摄入后引起毒性反应。

sepal: a modified leaf (usually green) that encloses a flower bud. Some plants have sepals that are more conspicuous

than their flowers.

萼片：包围花蕾的改良叶子（通常是绿色）。有些植物的萼片比花朵更显眼。

sialagogue: any substance that increases the secretion of saliva

促涎剂：任何增加唾液分泌的物质

simple: referring to leaf characteristics, a simple leaf has margins that are void of any serrations, divisions, or lobes.

A simple leaf is a basic leaf.

简单：指叶子特征，简单叶子的边缘没有任何锯齿、分裂或裂片。简单的叶子是基本的叶子。

stratification: a germination process by which a seed must be subjected to a prolonged period of cold (often

freezing) temperatures and moisture to break its dormancy

分层：种子必须经受长时间的寒冷（通常是冰冻）温度和水分以打破休眠状态的发芽过程

Streptococcus: a genus of gram-positive, spherically shaped bacteria in microscopic chains. Most forms of

Streptococcus are normally present and harmless in the body, while others, such as Streptococcus pneumoniae

(bacterial pneumonia), are potentially deadly.

链球菌：一类革兰氏阳性、球形、呈微链状的细菌。大多数形式的链球菌通常存在于体内并且无害，而其

他形式的链球菌，例如肺炎链球菌（细菌性肺炎），则可能致命。

stomachic: a stimulant or tonic for soothing the stomach

胃药：舒缓胃部的兴奋剂或补品

struvite: a urinary calculus composed of pure ammoniomagnesium phosphate, forming the hard crystals known to

minerologists as struvite

鸟粪石：一种由纯磷酸铵镁组成的尿路结石，形成矿物学家称为鸟粪石的硬晶体

styptic: an agent that causes bleeding to stop by making tissues contract rapidly; essentially the same as an

astringent

止血剂：一种通过使组织快速收缩来止血的药物；本质上与收敛剂相同

symbiosis: a relationship in which two dissimilar organisms live together for mutual benefit

共生：两种不同的生物为了互惠互利而共同生活的关系

=== PAGE 576 ===
———T———

taproot: a plant root that extends vertically downward into the soil (e.g., carrot or parsnip)

主根：垂直向下延伸到土壤中的植物根（例如胡萝卜或防风草）

terminate: referring to flowers that are the absolute end-tips of plant stems; also referred to as terminal

终止：指植物茎的绝对末端的花；也称为终端

tincture: an herbal preparation made by soaking plant material in a liquid solvent (called a menstruum) to extract

active medicinal constituents. Commonly referred to as herbal extracts, tinctures may be made from menstruums of

alcohol, glycerin, or vinegar.

酊剂：一种草药制剂，通过将植物材料浸泡在液体溶剂（称为溶剂）中以提取活性药物成分而制成。酊剂

通常被称为草药提取物，可以由酒精、甘油或醋溶剂制成。

titer: the quantity of a substance required to produce a reaction with a given volume of another substance, or the

amount of one substance required to correspond with a given amount of another substance. In veterinary medicine,

titer analysis is sometimes used to measure an animal’s resistance to an antigen—such as rabies virus. By testing an

animal’s blood for natural resistance to viral or bacterial infection, vaccination can often be avoided.

效价：与给定体积的另一种物质发生反应所需的物质的量，或与给定量的另一种物质相对应的一种物质的

量。在兽医学中，滴度分析有时用于测量动物对抗原（例如狂犬病病毒）的抵抗力。通过测试动物血液对

病毒或细菌感染的天然抵抗力，通常可以避免接种疫苗。

tonic: a general term for a nourishing substance that invigorates and increases the tone and strength of tissues and

improves the function of one or more body systems

补品：一种滋养物质的总称，可以增强和增强组织的张力和强度，并改善一个或多个身体系统的功能

tonicity: a property of the strength and resiliency of a body tissue

张力：身体组织的强度和弹性的属性

=== PAGE 577 ===
———U———

———你———

umbel: an umbrella-shaped flower. True umbels consist of tiny florets, each extending an equal distance from a

common point to form dense clusters. In this book, the terms umbel and umbel-like are used loosely to include

flowers that appear umbrella shaped regardless of the “true” criteria.

伞形花序：伞形的花。真正的伞形花序由微小的小花组成，每个小花从公共点延伸相等的距离，形成密集

的簇。在本书中，伞形花序和伞形伞形这两个术语被广泛使用，包括无论“真实”标准如何，呈现伞形的花

朵。

uremia: more correctly referred to as azotemia. An excess presence of urea, creatinine, and other nitrogenous end

products of protein and amino acid metabolism in the blood; may point to chronic renal failure.

尿毒症：更正确地称为氮质血症。血液中尿素、肌酐和其他蛋白质和氨基酸代谢的含氮终产物过多；可能

提示慢性肾功能衰竭。

urolithiasis: a condition marked by the formation of urinary calculi, or stones

尿石症：以形成尿路结石或结石为特征的疾病

urolith: urinary calculus or stone

尿石：尿路结石或结石

uterine stimulant: an agent that is capable of stimulating contraction of the uterus

子宫兴奋剂：能够刺激子宫收缩的药物

uterotonic: strengthens the uterus

子宫收缩：强化子宫

=== PAGE 578 ===
———V———

vaccinosis: sickness resulting from cumulative effects of years of vaccines

疫苗病：因多年疫苗累积效应而导致的疾病

vasoconstrictor: an agent that is capable of tightening the walls of blood vessels; opposite of vasodilator

血管收缩剂：能够收紧血管壁的药物；与血管扩张剂相反

vasodilator: an agent that is capable of dilating or widening blood vessels; opposite of vasoconstrictor

血管扩张剂：能够扩张或扩大血管的药物；与血管收缩剂相反

vetch: a common name for several plants in the pea family

野豌豆：豌豆科几种植物的通用名称

vulnerary: used to promote the healing of wounds

伤药：用于促进伤口愈合

=== PAGE 579 ===
———W———

wildcrafted: harvested from a wild, not cultivated, source

野生制作：从野生而非栽培来源收获

wort: an old term for plant

麦芽汁：植物的旧术语

=== PAGE 580 ===
References

参考

Abdullah, T. H., D. V. Kirkpatrick, and J. Carter, “Enhancement of Natural Killer Activity in AIDS with Garlic.”

Deutsche Zeitschrift für Onkologie 21 (1989): 52–3.

Abdullah, T. H.、D. V. Kirkpatrick 和 J. Carter，“大蒜增强艾滋病自然杀伤活性”。 Deutsche Zeitschrift für

Onkologie 21 (1989): 52–3。

Acker, Randy, DVM, and Jim Fergus. A Field Guide: Dog First Aid. Belgrade, Mont.: Wilderness Adventure Press,

1994.

阿克、兰迪、DVM 和吉姆·弗格斯。现场指南：狗急救。蒙大拿州贝尔格莱德：荒野探险出版社，1994

年。

Aizenman, B. E. “Antibiotic Preparations from Hypericum Perforatum.” Mikrobiolohichny Zhurnal (Kiev) 31

(1969): 128–33 (CA 70: 118006e).

Aizenman, B. E.“贯叶连翘的抗生素制剂”。 Mikrobiolohichny Zhurnal (基辅) 31 (1969): 128–33 (CA 70:

118006e)。

Ali, M. S., et al. “Isolation of Antitumor Polysaccharide Fractions from Yucca Glauca.” Growth 42, no. 2 (1978):

213–23.

阿里，M.S.，等人。 “从丝兰中分离抗肿瘤多糖组分。”成长 42，没有。 2（1978）：213-23。

Allard, M. “Treatment of Old Age Disorders with Ginkgo Biloba Extract: From Pharmacology to Clinic.” In Rokan

(Ginkgo Biloba): Recent Results in Pharmacology and Clinic, ed. E. W. Fünfgeld, 180–211. New York: Springer-

Verlag, 1988. (Original source: Presse Médicale 15, no. 31 [Sept. 25, 1986]: 1540–5.)

Allard, M.“银杏叶提取物治疗老年疾病：从药理学到临床”。在Rokan（银杏叶）：药理学和临床的最新结

果，编辑。 E.W.Fünfgeld，180–211。纽约：Springer-Verlag，1988。（原始来源：Presse Médicale 15，第

31 期 [1986 年 9 月 25 日]：1540–5。）

Allport, Richard B. Heal Your Cat the Natural Way. New York: Reed International Books, 1997.

奥尔波特，理查德·B。用自然的方式治愈你的猫。纽约：里德国际图书公司，1997 年。

———. Heal Your Dog the Natural Way. New York: Reed International Books, 1997.

———。以自然的方式治愈你的狗。纽约：里德国际图书公司，1997 年。

Al Makdessi, S., et al. “Myocardial Protection by Pretreatment with Crataegus Oxyacantha: An Assessment by

Means of the Release of Lactate Dehydrogenase by the Ischemic and Reperfused Langendorff Heart.” Arzneimittel-

Forschung 46 (Jan. 1996): 25–7.

Al Makdessi，S.，等人。 “用山楂 Oxyacantha 预处理对心肌的保护：通过缺血和再灌注 Langendorff 心脏释

放乳酸脱氢酶进行评估。” Arzneimittel-Forschung 46（1996 年 1 月）：25-7。

Almquist, H. J. “The Early History of Vitamin K.” American Journal of Clinical Nutrition 28 (1975): 656–9.

=== PAGE 581 ===
Almquist, H. J.“维生素 K 的早期历史”。美国临床营养杂志 28 (1975): 656–9。

American Botanical Council. Oats. German Commission E Monographs, in Bundesanzeiger (Cologne, Germany),

Oct. 15, 1987.

美国植物委员会。燕麦。德国委员会 E 专着，Bundesanzeiger（德国科隆），1987 年 10 月 15 日。

Anderson, Nina, and Howard Peiper. Are You Poisoning Your Pets? Garden City Park, N.Y.: Avery, 1998.

安德森、尼娜和霍华德·派珀。你毒害你的宠物了吗？纽约花园城市公园：艾弗里，1998。

———. Super Nutrition for Animals. Garden City Park, N.Y: Avery, 1996.

———。动物的超级营养。纽约花园城公园：艾弗里，1996。

Animal Protection Institute. What’s Really in Pet Food. Sacramento, Calif.: Animal Protection Institute, 1997.

动物保护研究所。宠物食品的真正成分是什么。加利福尼亚州萨克拉门托：动物保护研究所，1997 年。

Aonuma, S., T. Minuma, and M. Tarutani, “Effects of Coptis, Scuttellaria, Rhubarb, and Bupleurum on Serum

Cholesterol and Phospholipids in Rabbits.” Yakugaku Zasshi 77 (1957): 1303–7.

Aonuma, S.、T. Minuma 和 M. Tarutani，“黄连、黄芩、大黄和柴胡对兔子血清胆固醇和磷脂的影响”。药学

杂志 77 (1957): 1303–7。

Association of American Feed Control Officials. “Feed Ingredient Definitions.” In Official Publication of AAFCO.

Atlanta: AAFCO, 1997.

美国饲料控制官员协会。 “饲料成分定义。”在 AAFCO 官方出版物中。亚特兰大：AAFCO，1997。

———. “Minimum Feeding Protocols: Dog and Cat Maintenance Claims.” In Official Publication of AAFCO.

Atlanta: AAFCO, 1997.

———。 “最低限度喂养协议：狗和猫的维护索赔。”在 AAFCO 官方出版物中。亚特兰大：AAFCO，

1997。

Bai, M. X., et al. “Effects of Alanyl-Glutamine on Gut Barrier Function.” Nutrition 12 (Nov./Dec. 1996): 793–6.

Bai，M.X.，等人。 “丙氨酰谷氨酰胺对肠道屏障功能的影响。”营养学 12（1996 年 11 月/12 月）：793–6。

Bamberger, Michelle, DVM. Help! The Quick Guide to First Aid for Your Cat. New York: Howell Book House,

1993.

班伯格，米歇尔，DVM。帮助！猫急救快速指南。纽约：豪厄尔书屋，1993。

Bauer, R., and H. Wagner, “Echinacea Species as Potential Immunostimulatory Drugs.” In Economic and Medicinal

Plant Research, ed. H. Wagner and N. R. Farnsworth, 5:253–351. New York: Academic Press, 1991.

Bauer, R. 和 H. Wagner，“紫锥菊物种作为潜在的免疫刺激药物。”在经济和药用植物研究中，编辑。 H. 瓦

格纳和 N. R. 法恩斯沃斯，5:253–351。纽约：学术出版社，1991。

———. “Echinacea—der sonehut—Stand der forshung.” Zeitschrift fur Phytotherapie 9 (1988): 151–9.

=== PAGE 582 ===
———。 “紫锥菊——der sonehut——Stand der forshung。”植物疗法杂志 9 (1988): 151–9。

Beath, O. A. “The Composition and Properties of the Yucca Plant.” Kansas Academy of Science 27 (1914): 102–7.

Beath, O.A.“丝兰植物的成分和特性”。堪萨斯科学院 27 (1914): 102–7。

Belaiche, P., and O. Lievoux, “Clinical Studies on the Palliative Treatment of Prostatic Adenoma with Extract of

Urtica Root.” Phytotherapy Research 5 (1991 ): 267–9.

Belaiche, P. 和 O. Lievoux，“荨麻根提取物姑息治疗前列腺腺瘤的临床研究”。植物疗法研究 5（1991）：

267-9。

Belfield, Wendell O., DVM, and Martin Zucker. The Very Healthy Cat Book: A Vitamin and Mineral Program for

Optimal Feline Health. New York: McGraw-Hill, 1983.

贝尔菲尔德、温德尔·O.、DVM 和马丁·扎克。非常健康的猫书：促进猫科动物最佳健康的维生素和矿物质

计划。纽约：麦格劳-希尔，1983 年。

Bergner, Paul. The Healing Power of Garlic. Rocklin, Calif.: Prima, 1996.

伯格纳、保罗.大蒜的治疗功效。加利福尼亚州罗克林：Prima，1996 年。

Bicks, Jane R., DVM. Dr. Jane’s 30 Days to a Healthier, Happier Cat. New York: Berkeley Publishing Group,

1996.

比克斯，简·R.，DVM。简博士的《30 天让猫变得更健康、更快乐》。纽约：伯克利出版集团，1996 年。

Billinghurst, Ian, BVSc, BScAgr, Dip. Ed. Give Your Dog a Bone: The Practical Commonsense Way to Feed Dogs

for a Long Healthy Life. Ian Billinghurst, New South Wales, Australia 1993.

伊恩·比林赫斯特 (Billinghurst)，BVSc，BScAgr，Dip。埃德。给你的狗一根骨头：喂养狗以获得健康长寿

的实用常识方法。伊恩·比林赫斯特，澳大利亚新南威尔士州，1993 年。

Bissett, Wichtl. Herbal Drugs and Pharmaceuticals. Boca Raton, Fla.: CRC Press, 1994.

比塞特、维希特尔。草药和药品。佛罗里达州博卡拉顿：CRC Press，1994 年。

Block, Eric. “The Chemistry of Garlic and Onions.” Scientific American 252, no. 114 (1985): 3–25.

布洛克、埃里克. “大蒜和洋葱的化学。” 《科学美国人》252，第 1 期。 114（1985）：3-25。

———. “The Organic Chemistry of Garlic Sulfur Compounds.” Speech, First World Congress on the Health

Significance of Garlic and Garlic Constituents, Washington D.C., 1990.

———。 “大蒜硫化合物的有机化学。”演讲，第一届大蒜及其成分健康意义世界大会，华盛顿特区，1990

年。

Boucard-Maitre, Y., et al. “Cytoxic and Antitumoral Activity of Calendula Extracts.” Pharmazie 43 (1998): 220.

Boucard-Maitre，Y.，等人。 “金盏花提取物的细胞毒性和抗肿瘤活性。” Pharmazie 43（1998）：220。

Bourre, J. M., et al. “Fatty Acids of the Alpha-Linolenic Family and the Structures and Functions of the Brain: Their

=== PAGE 583 ===
Nature, Role, Origin and Dietary Importance—Animal Model.” Corps Gras Lipides 2 (1995): 254–63.

布尔，J.M.，等人。 “α-亚麻酸家族的脂肪酸以及大脑的结构和功能：它们的性质、作用、起源和饮食重要

性 - 动物模型。” Corps Gras Lipides 2 (1995): 254–63。

———, et al. “Structural and Functional Importance of Dietary Polyunsaturated Fatty Acids in the Nervous

System.” Advances in Experimental Medicine and Biology 318 (1992): 211–29.

———，等。 “膳食多不饱和脂肪酸在神经系统中的结构和功能重要性。”实验医学和生物学进展 318

(1992): 211-29。

Bravetti, G. “Preventative Medical Treatment of Senile Cataract with Vitamin E and Anthocyanosides: Clinical

Evaluation.” Annali di Ottalmologia e Clinica Oculistica 115 (1989): 109.

Bravetti, G.“用维生素 E 和花青素预防老年性白内障的药物治疗：临床评估。” 《Ottalmologia e Clinica

Oculistica 年鉴》115 (1989)：109。

Bray, Dr. Robert E. “Enteroliths: A Potential Problem with Horses.” Article prepared for Equi-Tech Conference,

Los Angeles, Nov. 1993.

布雷，罗伯特·E 博士。“肠石：马的潜在问题。”为 Equi-Tech 会议准备的文章，洛杉矶，1993 年 11 月。

British Herbal Medicine Association. British Herbal Pharmacopoeia. London: British Herbal Medicine Association,

1983.

英国草药协会。英国草药药典。伦敦：英国草药协会，1983 年。

Brown, N. D., and J. Donald. Herbal Prescriptions for Better Health. Rocklin, Calif.: Prima, 1996.

布朗，ND，和 J.唐纳德。促进健康的草药处方。加利福尼亚州罗克林：Prima，1996 年。

Buchanan, R. L. “Toxicity of Spices Containing Methylenedioxybenzine Derivatives: A Review.” Journal of Food

Safety 1 (1978): 275–93.

Buchanan, R. L.“含有亚甲二氧基苯衍生物的香料的毒性：综述”。食品安全杂志 1 (1978)：275–93。

Buhner, Stephen Harrod. Herbal Antibiotics: Natural Alternatives for Treating Drug-Resistant Bacteria. Pownal,

Vt.: Storey Books, 1999.

布纳，斯蒂芬·哈罗德。草药抗生素：治疗耐药细菌的天然替代品。佛蒙特州波纳尔：Storey Books，1999。

Buist, R. “The Malfunctional ‘Mucosal Barrier’ and Food Allergies.” International Clinical Nutrition Review 3

(1983): 1.

Buist, R.“功能失调的‘粘膜屏障’和食物过敏。”国际临床营养评论 3（1983）：1。

Bult, H., et al. “Modification of Endotoxin-Induced Haemodynamic and Haematological Changes in the Rabbit by

Methylprednisolone, F(ab’)2 Fragments and Rosmarinic Acid.” British Journal of Pharmacology 84 (1985): 317–27.

布尔特，H.，等人。 “甲基强的松龙、F(ab’) 2 片段和迷迭香酸对内毒素引起的兔子血液动力学和血液学变

化的改变。”英国药理学杂志 84 (1985): 317–27。

Caprioli, J., and M. Sears. “Forskolin Lowers Intraocular Pressure in Rabbits, Monkeys, and Man.” Lancet 1 (1983):

=== PAGE 584 ===
958–60.

卡普里奥利，J.，和 M.西尔斯。 “毛喉素可降低兔子、猴子和人的眼压。”柳叶刀 1 (1983): 958–60。

Carlisle, E. M. “Silicon as an Essential Trace Element in Animal Nutrition.” In Silicon Biochemistry, 123–39. Ciba

Foundation Symposium 121. Chichester, N.Y.: Wiley, 1986.

Carlisle, E. M.“硅作为动物营养中必需的微量元素。” 《硅生物化学》，123-39。汽巴基金会研讨会 121。奇

切斯特，纽约：Wiley，1986 年。

Cassady, J. M., et al. “Use of a Mammalian Cell Culture Benzo(a)-pyrene Metabolism Assay for the Detection of

Potential Anticarcinogens from Natural Products: Inhibition of Metabolism by Biochanin A, an Isoflavone of

Trifolium pratense L.” Cancer Research 48, no. 22 (1988): 6257–61.

卡萨迪，J.M.，等人。 “使用哺乳动物细胞培养物苯并 (a)-芘代谢测定法检测天然产物中的潜在抗癌物质：

Biochanin A（一种红车轴草异黄酮）对代谢的抑制。”癌症研究 48，没有。 22（1988）：6257-61。

Castelman, Michael. The Healing Herbs: The Ultimate Guide to the Curative Power of Nature’s Medicines.

Emmaus, Pa.: Rodale Press, 1991.

卡斯特尔曼、迈克尔.治疗草药：自然药物疗效的终极指南。宾夕法尼亚州以马忤斯：罗代尔出版社，1991

年。

Chadha, Y. R., ed. The Wealth of India. New Delhi: Publications & Information Directorate, CSIR, 1985.

查达，Y.R.，编辑。印度的财富。新德里：CSIR 出版和信息局，1985 年。

Chakarski, I., et al. “Clinical Study of a Herb Combination Consisting of Humulus lupulus, Mentha Piperita,

Cichorium Intybus in Patients with Chronic Calculous and Noncalculous Cholecystitis.” Probl. Vatr. Med. 10

(1982): 65–9.

查卡尔斯基，I.，等人。 “由蛇麻草、胡椒薄荷、菊苣组成的草药组合治疗慢性结石性和非结石性胆囊炎的

临床研究。”问题。瓦特尔。医学。 10（1982）：65-9。

———. “Treatment of Chronic Colitis with an Herbal Combination of Taraxacum Officinale, Hypericum

Perforatum, Melissa Officinalis, Calendula Officinalis, and Foeniculum Vulgare.” Pharmazie 43, no. 3 (March

1988): 220.

———。 “用蒲公英、贯叶连翘、香蜂草、金盏花和茴香的草药组合治疗慢性结肠炎。” Pharmazie 43，没

有。 3（1988 年 3 月）：220。

Chandler, R. F., et al. “Ethnobotany and Phytochemistry of Yarrow, Achillea Millefolium.” Economic Botany 36

(1982): 203–23.

钱德勒，R.F.，等人。 “西洋蓍草、Achillea Millefolium 的民族植物学和植物化学。”经济植物学

36（1982）：203-23。

———. “Herbal Remedies of the Maritime Indians: Sterols and Triterpenes of Achillea Millefolium L. (Yarrow).”

Journal of Pharmaceutical Science 71 (June 1982): 690–3.

———。 “沿海印第安人的草药：蓍草的甾醇和三萜。” 《药物科学杂志》71（1982 年 6 月）：690–3。

Chariot, E., and R. Charonnat. “Therapeutic Agents in Bile Secretion,” Annals of Medicine 37 (1935): 131–42.

=== PAGE 585 ===
Chariot，E. 和 R. Charonnat。 “胆汁分泌中的治疗剂”，医学年鉴 37 (1935)：131-42。

Chen, M. F., et al. “Effect of Glycyrrhizin on the Pharmacokinetics of Prednisolone Following Low Dosage of

Prednisolone Hemisuccinate.” Endocrinologia Japonica 37 (June 1990): 331–41.

陈，M.F.，等人。 “低剂量泼尼松龙半琥珀酸酯后甘草酸对泼尼松龙药代动力学的影响。”日本内分泌学

37（1990 年 6 月）：331-41。

Chung, Hsi I., et al. “Effects of Astragalus Membranaceus on Enhancement of Mouse Natural Killer Cell Activity.”

Clinical Laboratory Immunology 4 (Aug. 1984): 484–5.

Chung，Hsi I.，等。 “黄芪对增强小鼠自然杀伤细胞活性的作用。”临床实验室免疫学 4（1984 年 8 月）：

484–5。

Collier, H. O. J., et al. “Extract of Feverfew Inhibits Prostaglandin Biosynthesis.” Lancet 2 (1980): 922–73.

科利尔，H.O.J.，等人。 “小白菊提取物抑制前列腺素生物合成。”柳叶刀 2 (1980): 922–73。

Collin, M. A., and H. P. Charles, “Antimicrobial Activity of Carnosol and Ursolic Acid: Two Antioxidant

Constituents of Rosmarinus Officinalis.” Food Microbiology 4 (1987): 311–5.

Collin, M. A. 和 H. P. Charles，“鼠尾草酚和熊果酸的抗菌活性：迷迭香的两种抗氧化成分。”食品微生物学

4 (1987): 311–5。

Day, Christopher. The Homeopathic Treatment of Small Animals: Principles and Practice. Saffron Waldon,

England: C. W. Daniel, 1992.

天，克里斯托弗。小动物的顺势疗法：原则与实践。 Saffron Waldon，英国：C. W. Daniel，1992。

Deal, C. L., et al. “Treatment of Arthritis with Topical Capsaicin: A Double-Blind Trial.” Clinical Therapeutics 13,

no. 3 (1991): 383–95.

Deal，C.L.，等人。 “用局部辣椒素治疗关节炎：双盲试验。”临床治疗学 13，第 1 期。 3（1991）：383-

95。

De Bairacli Levy, Julliette. Cats Naturally: Natural Rearing for Healthier Domestic Cats. New York: Faber &

Faber, 1991.

德·贝拉克利·利维，朱丽叶。自然养猫：自然饲养更健康的家猫。纽约：Faber & Faber，1991。

———. The Complete Herbal Handbook for the Dog and Cat. New York: Faber & Faber, 1991.

———。狗和猫的完整草药手册。纽约：Faber & Faber，1991。

———. Herbal Handbook for Farm and Stable. New York: Faber & Faber, 1991.

———。农场和马厩草药手册。纽约：Faber & Faber，1991。

Derbentseva, N. A., and A. S. Rabinovich, “Isolation, Purification, and Study of Some Physicochemical Properties

of Novoimanin (a Hypericum Derivative).” In Novoimanin Ego Lech. Svoistva, ed. A. I. Solov’eva, 15–8. Kiev,

USSR: Naukova Dumka, 1968.

Derbentseva, N. A. 和 A. S. Rabinovich，“Novoimanin（一种金丝桃衍生物）的一些理化性质的分离、纯化和

=== PAGE 586 ===
研究”。在《新伊马宁·伊戈·莱赫》中。斯沃伊斯特瓦，编辑。 A.I.索洛夫耶娃，15-8。苏联基辅：Naukova

Dumka，1968 年。

Desai, K. N., H. Wei, and C. A. Lamartiniere. “The Preventive and Therapeutic Potential of the Squalene-

Containing Compound, Roidex, on Tumor Promotion and Regression.” Cancer Letters 101, March 19, 1996, 93–6.

Desai、K.N.、H.Wei 和 C.A.Lamartiniere。 “含角鲨烯的化合物 Roidex 对肿瘤促进和消退的预防和治疗潜

力。”癌症快报 101，1996 年 3 月 19 日，93–6。

Didry, N., and M. Pinkas. “Antibacterial Activity of Fresh Leaves of Tussilago sp.” Bulletin de la Societe de

Pharmacie de Lille 38 (1982): 51–2.

Didry, N. 和 M. Pinkas。 “Tussilago sp. 鲜叶的抗菌活性。”里尔药学会公报 38 (1982): 51–2。

———, et al. “Components and Activity of Tussilago Farfara,” Annales Pharmaceutiques Francaises 40 (1982):

75–80.

———，等。 “Tussilago Farfara 的成分和活性”，Annales Pharmaceutiques Francaises 40 (1982)：75-80。

Dong, D. C., L. F. Zhou, and J. X. J. Chen. “Changes in Proteinuria, Renal Function, and Immunity after Treatment

with Injections of a Solution of Astragalus Membranaceus.” Chung Hsi I Chieh Ho Tsa Chih 7 (July 1987): 388,

403–4.

董 D. C.、周 L. F. 和陈 J. X. J. 陈。 “注射黄芪溶液治疗后蛋白尿、肾功能和免疫力的变化。” 《中西一阶何

察志》7（1987 年 7 月）：388, 403–4。

Dorland’s Illustrated Medical Dictionary, 28th ed. Philadelphia: W. B. Saunders, 1994.

多兰插图医学词典，第 28 版。费城：W.B.桑德斯，1994。

Dorosz, Edmund R., DVM. Let’s Cook for Our Cat. Fort Macleod, Alberta, Canada: Our Pets, 1993.

埃德蒙·R·多罗斯 (Dorosz)，DVM。让我们为我们的猫做饭吧。加拿大艾伯塔省麦克劳德堡：我们的宠物，

1993 年。

———. Let’s Cook for Our Dog. Fort Macleod, Alberta, Canada: Our Pets, 1993.

———。让我们为我们的狗做饭吧。加拿大艾伯塔省麦克劳德堡：我们的宠物，1993 年。

Duke, James A. Handbook of Medicinal Herbs. Boca Raton, Fla.: CRC Press, 1985.

杜克，詹姆斯 A. 药草手册。佛罗里达州博卡拉顿：CRC Press，1985 年。

Duncan, Karen L., William R. Hare, and William B. Buck, “Malignant Hyperthermia-Like Reaction Secondary to

Ingestion of Hops in Five Dogs.” JAVMA 210, no. 1 (1997).

Duncan、Karen L.、William R. Hare 和 William B. Buck，“五只狗摄入啤酒花后继发的恶性高热样反应”。

JAVMA 210，没有。 1（1997）。

Eaton, S. A., et al. “Digital Starling Forces and Hemodynamics during Early Laminitis Induced by an Aqueous

Extract of Black Walnut (Juglans Nigra) in Horses.” American Journal of Veterinary Research 56 (Oct. 1995):

1338–44.

=== PAGE 587 ===
伊顿，S.A.等人。 “黑胡桃（黑核桃）水提取物在马中引起的早期蹄叶炎期间的数字八哥力量和血流动力

学。”美国兽医研究杂志 56（1995 年 10 月）：1338–44。

El-Olemy, M. M., J. J. Sabatka, and S. J. Stohs. “Sapogenins of Yucca Glauca.” Phytochemistry 13

El-Olemy、M. M.、J. J. Sabatka 和 S. J. Stohs。 “丝兰的皂苷元。”植物化学13

(1974): 489–92.

（1974）：489-92。

Fairbairn, J. W., and F. J. El-Muhtadi, “Chemotaxonomy of Antraquinones in Rumex.” Phytochemistry 11 (1972):

263–8.

Fairbairn, J. W. 和 F. J. El-Muhtadi，“酸模中蒽醌的化学分类学”。植物化学 11 (1972): 263–8。

Foster, Steven. “Echinacea: The Cold and Flu Remedy.” Alternative Complementary Therapies 1, no. 4 (1995),

254–7.

福斯特、史蒂文. “紫锥菊：感冒和流感的治疗方法。”替代补充疗法 1，没有。 4（1995），254-7。

———. Herbal Renaissance: Growing, Using, and Understanding Herbs in the Modern World. Layton, Utah:

Gibbs Smith Books, 1993.

———。草药复兴：现代世界中草药的种植、使用和理解。犹他州莱顿：吉布斯·史密斯图书，1993 年。

Fox, Michael W., DVM. The Healing Touch: The Proven Massage Program for Cats and Dogs. New York:

Newmarket Press, 1991.

福克斯，迈克尔·W.，DVM。治愈之触：经过验证的猫狗按摩程序。纽约：纽马克特出版社，1991 年。

Frazier, Anitra, with Norma Eckroate. The New Natural Cat: A Complete Guide for Finicky Owners. New York:

Penguin Books, 1990.

弗雷泽、安妮特拉和诺玛·埃克罗特。新自然猫：挑剔主人的完整指南。纽约：企鹅图书，1990 年。

Frohne, D. “Untersuchungen zur Frage der Harndesinfizierenden Wirkungen von Barentraubenblatt-Extrakten.”

Planta Medica 18 (1970): 23–5.

Frohne, D.“Untersuchungen zur Frage der Harndesinfizierenden Wirkungen von Barentraubenblatt-Extrakten”。植

物学 18 (1970): 23–5。

———, and H. J. Pfander. A Colour Atlas of Poisonous Plants. London: Wolfe, 1984.

———，和 H. J. Pfander。有毒植物彩色图集。伦敦：沃尔夫，1984 年。

Fujihira, K. “Treatment of Cataract of Ba-weiwan.” Japan Society for Oriental Medicine 24 (1974): 465–79.

Fujihira, K.“八尾丸白内障的治疗”。日本东方医学会 24 (1974): 465–79。

German Institute of Research for Drugs and Medical Devices. Commission E Monographs.

德国药物和医疗器械研究所。 E委员会专着。

=== PAGE 588 ===
Austin, Tex.: American Botanical Council, 1998.

德克萨斯州奥斯汀：美国植物学委员会，1998 年。

Gerstenfeld, Sheldon L., VMD. The Cat Care Book: All You Need to Know to Keep Your Cat Healthy and Happy.

Reading, Mass.: Addison-Wesley, 1989.

Gerstenfeld，Sheldon L.，VMD。猫护理书：让您的猫保持健康和快乐所需知道的一切。马萨诸塞州雷丁：

Addison-Wesley，1989。

———. The Dog Care Book: All You Need to Know to Keep Your Dog Healthy and Happy. Reading, Mass.:

Addison-Wesley, 1989.

———。狗护理书：让您的狗保持健康和快乐所需知道的一切。马萨诸塞州雷丁：Addison-Wesley，1989。

Gfeller, Roger W., DVM, and Shawn R. Messonnier, DVM. Handbook of Small Animal Toxicology and Poisonings.

St. Louis, Mo.: Mosby, 1998.

Gfeller、Roger W.、DVM 和 Shawn R. Messonnier、DVM。小动物毒理学和中毒手册。密苏里州圣路易斯：

莫斯比，1998 年。

Gisvold, O., and E. Thaker. “Lignans from Larrea Divaricata.” Journal of Pharmaceutical Science 63 (1974):

1905–7.

吉斯沃尔德 (O. Gisvold) 和 E. 塞克 (E. Thaker)。 “来自 Larrea Divaricata 的木脂素。”药物科学杂志 63

(1974): 1905–7。

Goldstein, Martin, DVM. The Nature of Animal Healing: The Path to Your Pet’s Health, Happiness, and Longevity.

New York: Knopf, 1999.

马丁·戈尔茨坦，DVM。动物治疗的本质：宠物健康、幸福和长寿之路。纽约：克诺夫，1999。

Gracza, L., et al. “Biochemical-Pharmacological Investigations of Medicinal Agents of Plant Origin, I: Isolation of

Rosmarinic Acid from Symphytum Officinale and Its Anti-Inflammatory Activity.” Archiv der Pharmazie

(Weinheim) 318 (1985): 1090–105.

格拉查，L.，等人。 “植物源药物的生化药理学研究，I：从聚合草中分离迷迭香酸及其抗炎活性。”

《Archiv der Pharmazie》（Weinheim）318（1985）：1090-105。

Grainger, Janette, and Connie Moore. Natural Insect Repellents for Pets, People, and Plants. Austin, Tex.: Herb

Bar, 1991.

格兰杰、珍妮特和康妮·摩尔。适用于宠物、人和植物的天然驱虫剂。德克萨斯州奥斯汀：Herb Bar，

1991。

Greaves, J. D., and C. L. A. Schmidt. “Nature of the Factor in Loss of Blood Coagulability of Bile Fistula Rats.”

Proceedings of the Society of Experimental Biology and Medicine 37 (1937): 43–5.

格里夫斯 (J. D.) 和 C. L. A. 施密特 (C. L. A. Schmidt)。 “胆瘘大鼠血液凝固性丧失的因素的性质。”实验生物

学和医学学会会刊 37 (1937)：43-5。

Greene, James. The Herbal Medicine-Maker’s Handbook. Forestville, Calif.: Simpler’s Botanical Co., 1990.

格林、詹姆斯.草药制造商手册。加利福尼亚州福里斯特维尔：Simpler’s Botanical Co.，1990。

=== PAGE 589 ===
Grieve, Maud. A Modern Herbal. Vols. 1 and 2. New York: Dover Publications, 1971.

悲伤，莫德。现代草药。卷。 1 和 2。纽约：多佛出版社，1971 年。

Grosjean, Nelly. Veterinary Aromatherapy. Essex, UK: C. W. Daniel, 1994.

格罗斯让、内莉.兽医芳香疗法。英国埃塞克斯：C. W. Daniel，1994。

Gupte, S. “Use of Berberine in Treatment of Giardiasis.” American Journal of Diseases of Childhood 129 (1975):

866.

Gupte, S.“使用小檗碱治疗贾第鞭毛虫病。”美国儿童疾病杂志 129（1975）：866。

Habersang, S., et al. “Pharmacological Studies with Compounds of Chamomile IV: Studies on Bisabolol.” Planta

Medica 37 (1979): 115–23.

哈伯桑，S.，等人。 “洋甘菊 IV 化合物的药理学研究：红没药醇的研究。”植物医学 37 (1979): 115–23。

Haggag, M. Y., et al. “Thin Layer and Gas Chromatographic Studies on the Essential Oil from Achillea

Millefolium.” Planta Medica 27 (1975): 361–6.

哈加格，M.Y.，等人。 “蓍草精油的薄层和气相色谱研究。”植物药学 27 (1975): 361–6。

Hara, H. “Experimental Study on the Effect of CoQ10 Administration to Isoproterenol-Induced Cardiomyopathy of

Rats.” Kurume Medical Journal 28 (1981): 125

Hara, H.“辅酶 Q10 给药对异丙肾上腺素诱发的大鼠心肌病影响的实验研究”。久留米医学杂志 28 (1981): 125

Harris, C., et al. “Efficacy of Acemannan in Treatment of Canine and Feline Spontaneous Neoplasms.” Molecular

Biotherapy 3, no. 4 (1991): 207–13.

哈里斯，C.，等人。 “乙酰甘露聚糖治疗犬和猫自发性肿瘤的功效。”分子生物疗法 3，编号。 4（1991）：

207-13。

Hawcroft, Tim. First Aid for Birds. New York: Howell Book House, 1997.

霍克罗夫特、蒂姆.鸟类急救。纽约：豪厄尔书屋，1997。

———. First Aid for Horses. New York: Howell Book House, 1997.

———。马匹急救。纽约：豪厄尔书屋，1997。

Hayes, Karen E. N., DVM. “Don’t Let DOD Derail Your Foal.” Modern Horse Breeding, May 1992.

海耶斯，凯伦·E.N.，DVM。 “不要让国防部让你的小马驹出轨。”现代马育种，1992 年 5 月。

Heinerman, John. Heinerman’s Encyclopedia of Healing Herbs and Spices. West Nyack, N.Y.: Parker Publishing,

1996.

海纳曼、约翰.海纳曼的草药和香料百科全书。纽约州西尼亚克：帕克出版社，1996 年。

Hendriks, H., et al. “Central Nervous Depressant Activity of Valerenic Acid in the Mouse.” Planta Medica 51

=== PAGE 590 ===
(1985): 28–31.

亨德里克斯，H.，等人。 “戊酸对小鼠的中枢神经抑制活性。” Planta Medica 51 (1985): 28–31。

Hof, S., and H. P. T. Ammon. “Negative Inotropic Action of Rosemary Oil, 1,8-Cineole, and Bornyl Acetate.”

Planta Medica 55 (1989): 106–7.

Hof, S. 和 H. P. T. Ammon。 “迷迭香油、1,8-桉树脑和乙酸冰片酯的负性肌力作用。”植物医学 55 (1989):

106–7。

Hoffmann, David. An Elders Herbal. Rochester, Vt.: Healing Arts Press, 1993.

霍夫曼、大卫.长老草药。佛蒙特州罗彻斯特：治疗艺术出版社，1993 年。

———. The New Holistic Herbal. Longmead, Shaftsbury, Dorset, UK: NIMH; Element Books, 1990.

———。新整体草药。英国多塞特郡沙夫茨伯里朗米德：NIMH；元素书籍，1990。

Hunter, Francis. Homeopathic First-Aid Treatment for Pets. Wellingborough, Northamptonshire, UK: Thorsons

London, 1988.

亨特、弗朗西斯.宠物顺势疗法急救治疗。英国北安普敦郡威灵堡：Thorsons London，1988 年。

Ieven, M., et al. “Screening of Higher Plants for Biological Activities I. Antimicrobial Activity.” Planta Medica 36

(1979): 311–21.

伊文，M.，等人。 “高等植物生物活性筛选 I. 抗菌活性。”植物医学 36 (1979): 311–21。

Ikram, M. “Medicinal Plants as Hypocholesterolemic Agents.” Journal of Pakistan Medical Association 39 (1980):

38–50.

Ikram, M.“药用植物作为降胆固醇剂。”巴基斯坦医学会杂志 39 (1980): 38–50。

Irlbeck, N. A. Nutrition and Care of Animals. Dubuque, Iowa: Kendall/Hunt Publishing, 1996.

Irlbeck，N.A. 动物的营养和护理。爱荷华州迪比克：肯德尔/亨特出版，1996 年。

Ito, N., S. Fukushima, and H. Tsuda. “Carcinogenicity and Modification of the Carcinogenic Response by BHA,

BHT and Other Antioxidants.” Critical Reviews in Toxicology 15, no. 2 (1985): 109–50.

Ito, N.、S. Fukushima 和 H. Tsuda。 “BHA、BHT 和其他抗氧化剂的致癌性和致癌反应的改变。”毒理学评论

15，第 1 期。 2（1985）：109-50。

Jackson, P., et al. “Intestinal Permeability in Patient with Eczema and Food Allergy.” Lancet 1285 (1981): 1285–6.

杰克逊，P.，等人。 “湿疹和食物过敏患者的肠道渗透性。”柳叶刀 1285 (1981): 1285–6。

Jain, R. C., M.D. “Onion and Garlic in Experimental Atherosclerosis.” Letter. Lancet 1, May 31, 1975, 1240.

Jain，R.C.，医学博士“实验性动脉粥样硬化中的洋葱和大蒜”。信。 《柳叶刀》1，1975 年 5 月 31 日，

1240。

Jalsenjak, V., et al. “Microcapsules of Sage Oil: Essential Oils Content and Antimicrobial Activity.” Pharmazie 42

=== PAGE 591 ===
(1987): 419–20.

Jalsenjak，V.，等人。 “鼠尾草油微胶囊：精油含量和抗菌活性。” Pharmazie 42（1987）：419-20。

James, John W., and Frank Cherry. The Grief Recovery Handbook: A Step-by-Step Program for Moving beyond

Loss. New York: HarperPerennial, 1988.

詹姆斯、约翰·W.和弗兰克·切里。悲伤恢复手册：超越损失的分步计划。纽约：HarperPerennial，1988。

Janick, J., et al. “Borage: A Source of Gamma Linolenic Acid.” Herbs, Spices, and Medicinal Plants: Recent

Advances in Botany, Horticulture, and Pharmacology, ed. L. E. Crakerand and J. E. Simon, 4:145–86. Phoenix,

Ariz.: Oryx Press, 1989.

贾尼克，J.，等人。 “琉璃苣：γ-亚麻酸的来源。”草药、香料和药用植物：植物学、园艺和药理学的最新进

展，编辑。 L.E.克拉克兰德和 J.E.西蒙，4：145-86。亚利桑那州菲尼克斯：Oryx 出版社，1989 年。

Johnston, C. S., L. J. Martin, and X. Cai. “Antihistamine Effect of Supplemental Ascorbic Acid and Neutrophil

Chemotaxis.” Journal of the American College of Nutrition 11, no. 2 (1992): 172–6.

约翰斯顿，C.S.，L.J. 马丁，X.蔡。 “补充抗坏血酸和中性粒细胞趋化性的抗组胺作用。”美国营养学院杂志

11，no。 2（1992）：172-6。

Ju, H.S., et al. “Effects of Glycyrrhiza Flavonoid on Lipid Peroxidation and Active Oxygen Radicals.” Yao Hsueh

Hsueh Pao, 24, no. 11 (1989): 807–12.

Ju，H.S.，等人。 “甘草黄酮对脂质过氧化和活性氧自由基的影响。”姚雪雪豹，24，号。 11（1989）：

807-12。

Jurcic, K., et al. “Zwei probandenstudien zur stimulierung der granulozytenphagozytose durch echinacea-extract-

haltige praparate.” Zeitschrift fur Phytotherapie 10 (1989): 167–70.

尤尔西奇，K.，等人。 “Zwei Probandenstudien zur derch 紫锥花提取物半噬菌体刺激颗粒酶。”植物疗法杂

志 10 (1989)：167–70。

Jurisson, S. “Flavonoid Substances of Capsella Bursa-Pastoris.” Farmatsiya (Moscow) 22 (1973): 34–5.

Jurisson, S.“荠菜的黄酮类物质。” Farmatsiya（莫斯科）22（1973）：34-5。

Kamen, Daniel, D.C. The Well Adjusted Dog: Canine Chiropractic Methods You Can Do. Cambridge, Mass.:

Brookline Books, 1997.

Kamen，Daniel，D.C.《适应良好的狗：你可以做的犬类脊椎按摩方法》。马萨诸塞州剑桥：布鲁克林图

书，1997 年。

Kaminski, P., and R. Katz. Flower Essence Repertory. Nevada City, Calif.: Flower Essence Society, 1994.

卡明斯基 (P. Kaminski) 和 R. 卡茨 (R. Katz)。花精库。加利福尼亚州内华达市：花精协会，1994 年。

Kendall, Roger V. “Basic and Preventative Nutrition for the Cat, Dog, and Horse.” In Complementary and

Alternative Veterinary Medicine: Principles and Practice, ed. Allen M. Schoen and Susan G. Wynn. St. Louis, Mo.:

Mosby, 1997.

Kendall, Roger V.“猫、狗和马的基本和预防性营养。”在《补充和替代兽医学：原理与实践》中，编辑。艾

伦·M·舍恩 (Allen M. Schoen) 和苏珊·G·韦恩 (Susan G. Wynn)。密苏里州圣路易斯：莫斯比，1997 年。

=== PAGE 592 ===
Kishimoto, C., et al. “The Protection of Coenzyme Q10 against Experimental Viral Myocarditis in Mice.” Japanese

Circulation Journal 48 (1984): 1358.

岸本，C.，等人。 “辅酶 Q10 对小鼠实验性病毒性心肌炎的保护作用。”日本流通杂志 48（1984）：1358。

Kleijnen, J., and P. Knipschild, “Ginkgo Biloba.” Lancet 340 (1992): 1136–9.

Kleijnen, J. 和 P. Knipschild，“银杏叶”。柳叶刀 340 (1992): 1136–9。

Kovach, A. G. B., M. Foeldi, and L. Fedina, “Die wirkung eines extraktes aus crataegus oxycantha auf die

durchstroemung der coronarirkung von hunden.” Arzneimittel-Forschung 9, no. 6 (1959): 378–9.

Kovach、A. G. B.、M. Foeldi 和 L. Fedina，“Die wirkung eines extraktes aus crataegus oxycantha auf die

durchstroemung der coronarirkung von hunden”。 Arzneimittel-Forschung 9，没有。 6（1959）：378-9。

Kowaleski, Z., W. Kedzia, and I. Mirska, “Effect of Berberine Sulfate on Staphylococci.” Archives of Immunology

and Experimental Therapeutics 20, no. 3 (1972): 353–60.

Kowaleski, Z.、W. Kedzia 和 I. Mirska，“硫酸小檗碱对葡萄球菌的影响”。免疫学和实验治疗学档案 20，

no。 3（1972）：353-60。

Kuroda, K., and K. Takagi, “Studies on Capsella Bursa-Pastoris. 1: Diuretic, Anti-Inflammatory, and Anti-Ulcer

Action of Ethanol Extracts of the Herb.” Archives Internationales de

Kuroda, K. 和 K. Takagi，“布尔萨巴斯德荠菜研究”。图 1：该草药乙醇提取物的利尿、抗炎和抗溃疡作

用。”国际档案馆

Pharmacodynamie et de Thérapie 178 (1969): 382–91.

药理学和治疗学 178 (1969): 382–91。

Lazarus, Pat. Keep Your Pet Healthy the Natural Way. Indianapolis: Macmillan, 1983.

拉扎勒斯，帕特。以自然的方式保持您的宠物健康。印第安纳波利斯：麦克米伦，1983 年。

Lenau, H., et al. “Wirksamkeit und Vertraglichkeit von Cysto Fink bei Patienten mit Reizblase und/oder

Harninkontinenz.” Therapiewoche 34 (1984): 6054.

莱瑙，H.，等人。 “Cysto Fink 的 Wirksamkeit und Vertraglichkeit bei Patienten mit Reizblase und/oder

Harninkontinenz。”治疗手册 34 (1984): 6054。

Leung, A. Y. Encyclopedia of Common Natural Ingredients Used in Food, Drugs, and Cosmetics. Chichester, N.Y.:

Wiley, 1980.

Leung, A. Y. 用于食品、药品和化妆品的常见天然成分百科全书。纽约州奇切斯特：Wiley，1980。

Lin, C. C., et al. “Anti-Inflammatory and Radical Scavenge Effects of Arctium Lappa.” American Journal of

Chinese Medicine 24, no. 2 (1996): 127–37.

林，C.C.，等人。 “牛蒡子的抗炎和自由基清除作用。”美国中医杂志 24，第 1 期。 2（1996）：127-37。

———. “Search for Biologically Active Substances in Taiwan Medicinal Plants. 1: Screening for Antitumor and

=== PAGE 593 ===
Antimicrobial Substances.” Chinese Journal of Microbiology 5 (1972): 76–8.

———。 “寻找台湾药用植物中的生物活性物质。 1：抗肿瘤和抗菌物质的筛选。”中国微生物学杂志

5(1972):76-8。

Loeper, J. E., et al. “Fatty Acids and Lipid Peroxidation during Experimental Atheroma. Silicon’s Action.”

Pathologie et Biologie 32 (1984): 693–7.

洛珀，J.E.，等人。 “实验性动脉粥样硬化过程中的脂肪酸和脂质过氧化。硅的行动。”病理学与生物学 32

(1984): 693–7。

Mabey, Richard. The New Age Herbalist. New York: Collier Books, 1987, 60–1.

梅比，理查德。新时代草药师。纽约：科利尔图书公司，1987 年，60–1。

MacLeod, George. Cats: Homeopathic Remedies. Essex, UK: C. W. Daniel, 1990.

麦克劳德、乔治.猫：顺势疗法。英国埃塞克斯：C. W. Daniel，1990。

———. Dogs: Homeopathic Remedies. Essex, UK: C. W. Daniel, 1990.

———。狗：顺势疗法。英国埃塞克斯：C. W. Daniel，1990。

Makheja, A. M., and J. M. Bailey. “A Platelet Phospholipase Inhibitor from the Medicinal Herb, Feverfew.”

Prostaglandins, Leukotrienes, and Medicine 8 (1982): 653–60.

Makheja，A. M. 和 J. M. Bailey。 “一种来自药草小白菊的血小板磷脂酶抑制剂。”前列腺素、白三烯和医学

8 (1982)：653–60。

Mammato, Bobbie, DVM. Pet First Aid. St. Louis, Mo.: Mosby, 1997.

Mammato，博比，DVM。宠物急救。密苏里州圣路易斯：莫斯比，1997 年。

Mann, C., and E. J. Staba, “The Chemistry, Pharmacology, and Commercial Formulations of Chamomile.” In Herbs,

Spices, and Medicinal Plants: Recent Advances in Botany, Horticulture, and Pharmacology, ed. L. E. Craker and J.

E. Simon, 2:235–80. Phoenix, Ariz.: Oryx, 1986.

Mann, C. 和 E. J. Staba，“洋甘菊的化学、药理学和商业配方”。草药、香料和药用植物：植物学、园艺和药

理学的最新进展，编辑。 L.E.克拉克和 J.E.西蒙，2：235-80。亚利桑那州菲尼克斯：Oryx，1986。

Martin, Ann M. Foods Pets Die For: Shocking Facts about Pet Foods. Troutdale, Ore.: NewSage, 1997.

Martin, Ann M.《宠物食品的死亡：有关宠物食品的令人震惊的事实》。俄勒冈州特劳特代尔：NewSage，

1997。

McCutcheon, A. R., et al. “Antiviral Screening of British Columbian Medicinal Plants.” Journal of

Ethnopharmacology 49 (Dec. 1995): 101–10.

麦卡琴 (McCutcheon)，A.R.，等人。 “不列颠哥伦比亚省药用植物的抗病毒筛选。”民族药理学杂志

49（1995 年 12 月）：101-10。

McFarlane, J. M., and C. D. Metheney, “Effect of Micro-Aid (a Product Containing Yucca) on Canine and Feline

Fecal Odors When Added to Six Dog Food and Six Cat Food Diets.” MAFGD-4 and MAFGD-5. Distributors

=== PAGE 594 ===
Processing, Porterville, Pa., 1988.

McFarlane、J. M. 和 C. D. Metheney，“Micro-Aid（一种含有丝兰的产品）添加到六种狗粮和六种猫粮中对

犬科动物和猫科动物粪便气味的影响”。 MAFGD-4 和 MAFGD-5。经销商加工，宾夕法尼亚州波特维尔，

1988 年。

McKay, Pat. Natural Immunity: Why You Should Not Vaccinate. Pasadena, Calif.: Oscar, 1997.

麦凯、帕特.自然免疫力：为什么你不应该接种疫苗。加利福尼亚州帕萨迪纳：奥斯卡，1997 年。

———. Reigning Dogs and Cats. Pasadena, Calif.: Oscar, 1992.

———。统治狗和猫。加利福尼亚州帕萨迪纳：奥斯卡，1992 年。

McKinnon, Helen L. It’s for the Animals! Cookbook and Guided Tour of Natural Care and Resource Directory, 3rd

ed. Clinton, N.J.: CSA, 1997.

麦金农 (Helen L)。这是为了动物！自然护理和资源目录的食谱和导览，第三版。新泽西州克林顿：CSA，

1997。

———. It’s for the Animals! Natural Care and Resources, 1998. To order, call: (888) 339–4382.

———。这是为了动物！自然护理和资源，1998。要订购，请致电：(888) 339-4382。

McWatters, Alicia. A Guide to a Naturally Healthy Bird: Nutrition, Feeding, and Natural Healing Methods for

Parrots. East Canaan, Conn.: Safe Goods, 1997.

麦克沃特斯，艾丽西亚。自然健康鸟类指南：鹦鹉的营养、喂养和自然治疗方法。康涅狄格州东迦南：安

全货物，1997 年。

Melman, Steven. Skin Diseases of Dogs and Cats: A Guide for Pet Owners and Professionals. Potomac, Md.:

DermaPet, 1994.

梅尔曼、史蒂文.狗和猫的皮肤病：宠物主人和专业人士指南。马里兰州波托马克：DermaPet，1994。

Merchant, S. “Advances in Veterinary Dermatology.” Compendium 16 (1994): 445.

Merchant, S.“兽医皮肤病学的进展”。纲要 16（1994）：445。

The Merck Veterinary Manual. 7th ed. Rahway, N.J.: Merck & Co., 1991.

默克兽医手册。第 7 版。新泽西州拉威：默克公司，1991 年。

Meruelo, D., and D. Lavie. “Therapeutic Agents with Dramatic Antiretroviral Activity and Little Toxicity at

Effective Doses: Aromatic Polycyclic Diones Hypericin and Pseudohypericin.” Proceedings of the National

Academy of Sciences of the United States of America 85 (1988): 5230–4.

Meruelo, D. 和 D. Lavie。 “在有效剂量下具有显着抗逆转录病毒活性且毒性很小的治疗药物：芳香族多环二

酮金丝桃素和假金丝桃素。”美国国家科学院院刊 85 (1988): 5230–4。

Miller, Neil Z. Vaccines: Are They Really Safe and Effective? A Parent’s Guide to Childhood Shots. Santa Fe, N.M.:

New Atlantean Press, 1992.

Miller, Neil Z. 疫苗：它们真的安全有效吗？家长儿童拍摄指南。新墨西哥州圣达菲：新亚特兰蒂斯出版

=== PAGE 595 ===
社，1992 年。

Mittman, Paul. “Randomized, Double-Blind Study of Freeze-Dried Urtica Dioica in the Treatment of Allergic

Rhinitis.” Planta Medica 56, no. 1 (1990): 44–7.

米特曼、保罗. “冻干荨麻治疗过敏性鼻炎的随机、双盲研究。”植物药学 56，没有。 1（1990）：44-7。

Miyazawa, M., and H. Kameoka. “Constituents of Essential Oil from Rumex Crispus.” Yakagatu 32 (1983): 45–7.

宫泽 M. 和 H. 龟冈。 “酸模精油的成分。” 《Yakagatu》32 (1983)：45-7。

Mizobuchi, S., and Y. Sato. “Antifungal Activities of Hop Bitter Resins and Related Compounds.” Agricultural

Biological Chemistry 49 (1985): 399–405.

Mizobuchi, S. 和 Y. Sato。 “啤酒花苦味树脂和相关化合物的抗真菌活性。”农业生物化学 49 (1985): 399–

405。

Montgomery, Mary, and Herb Montgomery. A Final Act of Caring: Ending the Life of an Animal Friend.

Minneapolis: Montgomery Press, 1993. To order, write: P.O. Box 24124, Minneapolis, MN 55424.

蒙哥马利、玛丽和赫伯·蒙哥马利。最后的关怀之举：结束动物朋友的生命。明尼阿波利斯：蒙哥马利出版

社，1993 年。订购时请写：P.O.信箱 24124，明尼阿波利斯，明尼苏达州 55424。

———. Good-Bye My Friend: Grieving the Loss of a Pet. Minneapolis: Montgomery Press, 1993. To order, write:

P.O. Box 24124, Minneapolis, MN 55424.

———。再见我的朋友：失去宠物的悲伤。明尼阿波利斯：蒙哥马利出版社，1993 年。订购时请写：P.O.

信箱 24124，明尼阿波利斯，明尼苏达州 55424。

Moore, Michael. Medicinal Plants of the Mountain West. Santa Fe: Museum of New Mexico Press, 1979.

摩尔、迈克尔.西山药用植物。圣达菲：新墨西哥博物馆出版社，1979 年。

———. Medicinal Plants of the Pacific West. Santa Fe: Red Crane Press, 1993.

———。西太平洋的药用植物。圣达菲：红鹤出版社，1993。

Moraleda, G., et al. “Inhibition of Duck Hepatitis B Virus Replication by Hypericin.” Antiviral Research 20 (1993):

235–47.

莫拉莱达，G.，等人。 “金丝桃素抑制鸭乙型肝炎病毒复制。”抗病毒研究 20 (1993): 235–47。

Morelli, I., et al. Selected Medicinal Plants. Rome: FAO, 1983.

莫雷利，I.，等人。精选药用植物。罗马：粮农组织，1983 年。

Morita, K., et al. “Chemical Nature of a Desmutagenic Factor from Burdock (Arctium Lappa Linne).” Agricultural

Biology and Chemistry 49 (1985): 925–32.

森田，K.，等人。 “牛蒡（Arctium Lappa Linne）去突变因子的化学性质。”农业生物学和化学 49 (1985):

925–32。

=== PAGE 596 ===
Morris, T., et al. “Evaluation of the Healing Activity of Hydrocotyle (Gotu Kola) Tincture in the Treatment of

Wounds.” Phytotherapy Research 1 (1987): 117–21.

莫里斯，T.，等人。 “评估 Hydrocotyle（积雪草）酊剂治疗伤口的愈合活性。”植物疗法研究 1 (1987)：117-

21。

Moskalenko, S. A. “Preliminary Screening of Far-Eastern Ethnomedicinal Plants for Antibacterial Activity.”

Journal of Ethnopharmacology 15 (1986): 231–59.

Moskalenko, S.A.“远东民族药用植物抗菌活性的初步筛选”。民族药理学杂志 15 (1986): 231–59。

Mowrey, Daniel B., PhD. Herbal Tonic Therapies. New Canaan, Conn.: Keats, 1993.

莫雷，丹尼尔·B.，博士。草药滋补疗法。康涅狄格州新迦南：济慈，1993 年。

———. The Scientific Validation of Herbal Medicine. New Canaan, Conn.: Keats, 1986.

———。草药的科学验证。康涅狄格州新迦南：济慈，1986 年。

Muldner, Von H., and M. Zoller. “Antidepressive wirkung eines auf den wirkstoffkomplex hypercin standardisierten

hypericum-extraktes.” Arzneimittel-Forschung 34 (1984): 918.

穆德纳 (Von H.) 和 M.佐勒 (M. Zoller)。 “抗抑郁药是金丝桃素提取物的标准药。” Arzneimittel-Forschung 34

(1984): 918。

Murphy, E. W., A. C. March, and B. W. Willis. “Nutrient Content of Spices and Herbs.” Journal of the American

Dietetic Association 72 (1978): 174.

墨菲、E.W.、A.C. 马奇和 B.W. 威利斯。 “香料和香草的营养成分。”美国饮食协会杂志 72 (1978): 174。

Nalini, K., et al. “Effect of Centella Asiatica Fresh Leaf Aqueous Extract on Learning and Memory and Biogenic

Amine Turnover in Albino Rats.” Fitoterapia 63, no. 3 (1992): 232–7.

纳里尼，K.，等人。 “积雪草鲜叶水提取物对白化大鼠学习记忆和生物胺周转的影响。” Fitoterapia 63，没

有。 3（1992）：232-7。

Nasyrov, K. M., and D. N. Lazareva, “Study of the Anti-Inflammatory Activity of Glycyrrhizin Acid Derivatives.”

Farmakol Toksikol 43 (July/Aug. 1980): 399–404.

Nasyrov, K. M. 和 D. N. Lazareva，“甘草酸衍生物的抗炎活性研究”。 Farmakol Toksikol 43（1980 年 7 月/8

月）：399–404。

Newall, Carol A., Linda A. Anderson, and J. David Phillipson. Herbal Medicines: A Guide for Health Care

Professionals. London: Pharmaceutical Press, 1996.

纽厄尔、卡罗尔 A.、琳达 A. 安德森和 J. 大卫·菲利普森。草药：医疗保健专业人员指南。伦敦：制药出版

社，1996 年。

Norsworthy, Gary D., and Sharon K. Fooshee. Ask the Vet: Questions and Answers for Cat Owners. Guelph,

Ontario, Canada: Lifelearn, 1997.

加里·D·诺斯沃西和莎伦·K·福希。询问兽医：猫主人的问答。加拿大安大略省贵湖市：Lifelearn，1997 年。

=== PAGE 597 ===
———. Ask the Vet: Questions and Answers for Dog Owners. Guelph, Ontario, Canada: Lifelearn, 1997.

———。询问兽医：狗主人的问答。加拿大安大略省贵湖市：Lifelearn，1997 年。

Okpanyi, S. N., and M. L. Weishcer. “Tierexperimentelle Untersuchungen zur psychotropen wirksamkeit eines

Hypericum-extraktes.” Arzneimittel-Forschung 37 (1987): 10–3.

Okpanyi，S.N. 和 M.L.Weishcer。 “Tierexperimentelle Untersuchungen zur mentaltropen wirksamkeit eines

Hypericum-extrates。” Arzneimittel-Forschung 37 (1987): 10–3。

O’Neill, L. A. J., et al. “Extracts of Feverfew Inhibit Mitogen-Induced Human Peripheral Blood Mononuclear Cell

Proliferation and Cytokine Mediated Responses: A Cytotoxic Effect.” British Journal of Clinical Pharmacology 23

(1987): 81–3.

奥尼尔，L.A.J.，等人。 “小白菊提取物抑制丝裂原诱导的人外周血单核细胞增殖和细胞因子介导的反应：

细胞毒性作用。”英国临床药理学杂志 23 (1987): 81–3。

Opdyke, D. L. J. “Parsley Seed Oil.” Food Cosmetics Toxicology 13 (1975): S:897–8.

Opdyke，D.L.J.“欧芹籽油”。食品化妆品毒理学 13 (1975): S:897–8。

———. “Rosemary Oil.” Food and Cosmetics Toxicology 12 (1974): 977–8.

———。 “迷迭香油。”食品和化妆品毒理学 12 (1974): 977–8。

Orzechowski, G. “Antibiotics from Higher Plants.” Pharmazie in unserer Zeit 10 (1981): 42–54.

Orzechowski, G.“来自高等植物的抗生素。” Pharmazie in unserer Zeit 10 (1981): 42–54。

Patmore, Angela, and Tim Couzens. Your Natural Dog: A Guide to Behavior and Health Care. New York: Carroll

& Graf, 1993.

帕特莫尔、安吉拉和蒂姆·库曾斯。你天生的狗：行为和保健指南。纽约：卡罗尔和格拉夫，1993。

Peng, S. Y., et al. “Decreased Mortality of Norman Murine Carcinoma in Mice Treated with the Immunomodulator,

Acemannan.” Molecular Biotherapy 3, no. 2 (1991): 79–87.

彭，S.Y.，等人。 “用免疫调节剂 Acemannan 治疗的小鼠诺曼鼠癌死亡率降低。”分子生物疗法 3，编号。

2（1991）：79-87。

Petkov, V. “Plants with Hypotensive, Antiatheromatous, and Coronarodilatating Action.” American Journal of

Chinese Medicine 7 (1979): 197–236.

Petkov, V.“具有降血压、抗动脉粥样硬化和冠状动脉扩张作用的植物”。美国中医杂志 7 (1979): 197–236。

Piekos, R., et al. “Studies on the Optimum Conditions of Extraction of Silicon Species from Plants with Water.”

Planta Medica 27 (1975): 147. Cited in Herbal Medicine, ed. Rudolf Fritz Weiss, 238–40. Beaconsfield, England:

Beaconsfield Publishing, 1988.

Piekos，R.，等人。 “水提取植物硅的最佳条件研究”。 Planta Medica 27 (1975): 147。引用于草药，编辑。

鲁道夫·弗里茨·韦斯，238-40。英国比肯斯菲尔德：比肯斯菲尔德出版社，1988 年。

Pinkas, M., et al. “Phenolic Components from Some Species of Grindelia.” Annales Pharmaceutiques Françaises

=== PAGE 598 ===
36 (1978): 97–104.

Pinkas，M.，等人。 “来自某些 Grindelia 物种的酚类成分。”法国药学年鉴 36 (1978): 97–104。

Pitcairn, Richard, and Susan Hubble Pitcairn. Natural Health for Dogs and Cats. Emmaus, Pa.: Rodale, 1995.

皮特凯恩，理查德和苏珊·哈勃 皮特凯恩。狗和猫的自然健康。宾夕法尼亚州以马忤斯：罗代尔，1995

年。

Pizzorno, J. E., and M. T. Murray, “Hydrastis Canadensis, Mahonia Aquifolium, and Other Berberine-Containing

Plants.” In Textbook of Natural Medicine. Seattle, Wash.: John Bastyr College Publications, 1985.

Pizzorno, J. E. 和 M. T. Murray，“加拿大白蛰、十大功劳和其他含小檗碱的植物”。自然医学教科书中。华盛

顿州西雅图：约翰·巴斯蒂尔学院出版社，1985 年。

Plechner, Alfred J., and Martin Zucker. Pet Allergies: Remedies for an Epidemic. Inglewood, Calif.: Very Healthy

Enterprises, 1986.

阿尔弗雷德·J.普莱希纳和马丁·扎克。宠物过敏：流行病的补救措施。加利福尼亚州英格尔伍德：非常健康

的企业，1986 年。

Preininger, V. “The Pharmacology and Toxicology of the Papaveracea Alkaloids.” In The Alkaloids, ed. R. H. F.

Manske and H. L. Holmes, 15:239. New York: Academic Press, 1975.

Preininger, V.“罂粟生物碱的药理学和毒理学”。在生物碱，编辑。 R. H. F. 曼斯克和 H. L. 霍姆斯，15:239。

纽约：学术出版社，1975 年。

Priest, A. W., and L. R. Priest. Herbal Medication. London: Fowler & Co., 1982.

普里斯特 (A.W. Priest) 和 L.R. 普里斯特 (L.R. Priest)。草药。伦敦：福勒公司，1982 年。

Puotinen, C. J. The Encyclopedia of Natural Pet Care. New Canaan, Conn.: Keats, 1998.

Puotinen, C. J. 天然宠物护理百科全书。康涅狄格州新迦南：济慈，1998 年。

Pyrrolizidine Alkaloids. Environmental Health Criteria series, no. 80. Geneva: WHO, 1988.

吡咯里西啶生物碱。环境健康标准系列，编号。 80. 日内瓦：世界卫生组织，1988 年。

Quackenbush, Jamie, MSW, and Denise Graveline. When Your Pet Dies: How to Cope with Your Feelings. New

York: Simon & Schuster, 1985.

Quackenbush、Jamie、MSW 和 Denise Graveline。当你的宠物去世时：如何应对你的感受。纽约：西蒙与舒

斯特，1985。

Reader’s Digest. Magic and Medicine of Plants. Pleasantville, New York: Reader’s Digest, 1986.

读者文摘。植物的魔法与药用。纽约普莱森维尔：《读者文摘》，1986 年。

Recio, M. C., et al. “Antimicrobial Activity of Selected Plants Employed in the Spanish Mediterranean Area, Part

2.” Phytotherapy Research 3 (1989): 77–88.

Recio，M.C.，等人。 “西班牙地中海地区所选植物的抗菌活性，第 2 部分。”植物疗法研究 3（1989）：77-

88。

=== PAGE 599 ===
Ridker, P. M., et al. “Hepatic Venocclusive Disease Associated with the Consumption of Pyrrolizidine-Containing

Dietary Supplements.” Gastroenterology 88 (1985): 1050–4.

Ridker，P.M.，等人。 “与食用含吡咯里西啶的膳食补充剂有关的肝静脉闭塞性疾病。”胃肠病学 88 (1985):

1050–4。

Riedel, E., et al. “Inhibition of Y-Aminobutyric Acid Catabolism by Valerenic Acid Derivatives.” Planta Medica 48

(1982): 219–20.

Riedel，E.，等人。 “戊酸衍生物抑制 Y-氨基丁酸分解代谢。”植物医学 48 (1982): 219–20。

Ripperger, W. “Pflanzliche laxatien und cholagogue wirkungen,” Medizinische Welt 9 (1935): 1463–7.

Ripperger, W.“Pflanzliche laxatien und cholagogue wirkungen”，Medizinische Welt 9 (1935)：1463–7。

Samec, V. “Effect of Lycopus Extracts on Thyroid Metabolism and Autonomic Disorders.” Wiener Medizinische

Woche 31 (1961): 513. Cited in Herbal Medicine, ed. Rudolf Fritz Weiss. Beaconsfield Publishing, England:

Beaconsfield, 1988.

Samec, V.“番茄提取物对甲状腺代谢和自主神经紊乱的影响。” Wiener Medizinische Woche 31 (1961): 513。

《草药》编辑，引用。鲁道夫·弗里茨·韦斯。英国比肯斯菲尔德出版社：比肯斯菲尔德，1988 年。

Sanchez de Medina, E., et al. “Hypoglycemic Activity of Juniper Berries.” Planta Medica 60 (1994): 197–200.

桑切斯·德·梅迪纳 (Sanchez de Medina)，E.，等人。 “杜松子的降血糖活性。”植物医学 60 (1994): 197–200。

Schmalreck, A. F., et al. “Structural Features Determining the Antibiotic Potencies of Natural and Synthetic Hop

Bitter Resins, Their Precursors, and Derivatives.” Canadian Journal of Microbiology 21 (1975): 205–12.

Schmalreck，A.F.，等人。 “决定天然和合成啤酒花苦味树脂、其前体和衍生物抗生素效力的结构特征。”加

拿大微生物学杂志 21 (1975): 205–12。

Schoen, Allen M., DVM. Love, Miracles, and Animal Healing. New York: Simon & Schuster, 1997.

舍恩，艾伦 M.，DVM。爱、奇迹和动物治疗。纽约：西蒙与舒斯特，1997。

———, and Susan G. Wynn, eds., Complementary and Alternative Veterinary Medicine: Principles and Practice.

Saint Louis, Mo.: Mosby, 1998.

———，和 Susan G. Wynn 编辑，补充和替代兽医学：原则与实践。密苏里州圣路易斯：莫斯比，1998

年。

Schultze, Kymythy R. The Ultimate Diet: Natural Nutrition for Dogs and Cats. Descanso, Calif.: Affenbar Ink,

1998.

Schultze, Kymythy R. 终极饮食：狗和猫的天然营养。加利福尼亚州德斯坎索：Affenbar Ink，1998。

Segura, J. J., et al. “Vitro Amoebicidal Activity of Larrea Tridentate.” Boletin de Estudios Medicos Y Biologicos 30

(1979): 267–8.

塞古拉，J.J.，等人。 “Larrea Tridentate 的体外阿米巴杀活性。”医学与生物学研究公报 30 (1979): 267–8。

=== PAGE 600 ===
Self, Hilary Page. A Modern Horse Herbal. Addington, Buckingham, UK: Kenilworth Press, 1996.

希拉里·佩奇本人。现代马草药。阿丁顿，白金汉，英国：凯尼尔沃斯出版社，1996 年。

Shashikanth, K. N., S. C. Basappa, and V. Sreenivasa Murthy, “A Comparative Study of Raw Garlic Extract and

Tetracycline on Caecal Microflora and Serum Proteins of Albino Rats.” Folia Microbiologica (Praha) 29 (1984):

348–52.

Shashikanth、K. N.、S. C. Basappa 和 V. Sreenivasa Murthy，“生大蒜提取物和四环素对白化大鼠盲肠微生物

群和血清蛋白的比较研究”。微生物学（布拉格）29（1984）：348-52。

Sheets, M. A., et al. “Studies of the Effect of Acemannan on Retrovirus Infections: Clinical Stabilization of Feline

Leukemia Virus-Infected Cats.” Molecular Biotherapy 3, no. 1 (1991): 41–5.

Sheets，M.A.等人。 “乙酰甘露聚糖对逆转录病毒感染影响的研究：猫白血病病毒感染猫的临床稳定。”分

子生物疗法 3，编号。 1（1991）：41-5。

Shibata, M. A., et al. “The Modifying Effects of Indomethacin or Ascorbic Acid on Cell Proliferation Induced by

Different Types of Bladder Tumor Promoters in Rat Urinary Bladders and Forestomach Mucosal Epithelium.”

Japanese Journal of Cancer Research 83 (Jan. 1992): 31–9.

Shibata，M.A.，等人。 “吲哚美辛或抗坏血酸对大鼠膀胱和前胃粘膜上皮中不同类型膀胱肿瘤启动子诱导

的细胞增殖的调节作用。”日本癌症研究杂志 83（1992 年 1 月）：31-9。

Shipochliev, B. T. “Extracts from a Group of Medicinal Plants Enhancing the Uterine Tonus.” Veterinary Medicine

Nauki 18 (1981): 94–8.

Shipochliev, B.T.“一组增强子宫紧张的药用植物提取物”。兽医 Nauki 18 (1981): 94–8。

Siegal, Mordecai, and Cornell University. The Cornell Book of Cats. New York: Villard Books, 1989.

西格尔、莫迪凯和康奈尔大学。康奈尔猫书。纽约：维拉德图书公司，1989 年。

———, and the School of Veterinary Medicine, University of California at Davis. UC Davis Book of Dogs. New

York: HarperCollins, 1995.

———，以及加州大学戴维斯分校兽医学院。加州大学戴维斯分校的狗书。纽约：哈珀柯林斯出版社，

1995 年。

Sife, Wallace, PhD. The Loss of a Pet. New York: Howell Book House, Macmillan, 1993.

西夫，华莱士，博士。失去宠物。纽约：豪威尔书屋，麦克米伦，1993 年。

Slagowska, A., I. Zgorniak-Nowosielska, and J. Grzybek, “Inhibition of Herpes Simplex Virus Replication by Flos

Verbasci Infusion.” Polish Journal of Pharmacology and Pharmacy 39 (Jan./Feb. 1987): 55–61.

Slagowska, A.、I. Zgorniak-Nowosielska 和 J. Grzybek，“弗洛斯·维尔巴西输注液抑制单纯疱疹病毒复制”。

波兰药理学和药学杂志 39（1987 年 1 月/2 月）：55–61。

Smart, C. R., et al. “Clinical Experience with Nordihydroguaiaretic Acid-Chapparal Tea in the Treatment of

Cancer.” Rocky Mountain Medical Journal 67 (Nov. 1970): 39–43.

斯玛特，C.R.，等人。 “去甲二氢愈创木酸-查帕拉茶治疗癌症的临床经验。”落基山医学杂志 67（1970 年

11 月）：39–43。

=== PAGE 601 ===
Smith, Carin A., DVM. “Is Your Horse Hypothyroid?” Horse Illustrated, Jan. 1994.

史密斯，卡林·A.，DVM。 “你的马甲状腺功能减退吗？”马画报，1994 年 1 月。

Solomons, N. W., and I. H. Rosenberg, eds. Absorption and Malabsorption of Mineral Nutrients. New York: A. R.

Liss, 1984.

所罗门斯 (N. W.) 和 I. H. 罗森伯格 (I. H. Rosenberg) 编辑。矿物质营养素的吸收和吸收不良。纽约：A. R.

Liss，1984。

Someya, H. “Effect of a Constituent of Hypericum Erectum on Infection and Multiplication of Epstein-Barr Virus.”

Journal of Tokyo Medical College 43 (1985): 815–26.

Someya, H.“金丝桃成分对 Epstein-Barr 病毒感染和增殖的影响。”东京医科大学杂志 43 (1985): 815–26。

St. Claire, Debra. The Herbal Medicine Cabinet: Preparing Natural Remedies at Home. Berkeley, Calif.: Celestial

Arts, 1997.

圣克莱尔，黛布拉。草药柜：在家准备自然疗法。加利福尼亚州伯克利：天艺，1997 年。

Stein, Diane. The Natural Remedy Book for Dogs and Cats. Freedom, Calif.: Crossing Press, 1994.

斯坦因、黛安.狗和猫的自然疗法书。加利福尼亚州自由：Crossing Press，1994 年。

Stewart-Spears, Genie. “Disease Linked to Nutrition.” Chronicle of the Horse, Jan. 1992.

斯图尔特·斯皮尔斯，精灵。 “疾病与营养有关。” 《马纪事》，1992 年 1 月。

Strombeck, Donald R., DVM, PhD. Home-Prepared Dog and Cat Diets: The Healthful Alternative. Ames: Iowa

State University Press, 1998.

唐纳德·R·斯特龙贝克 (Donald R. Strombeck)，DVM，博士。家庭准备的狗和猫饮食：健康的选择。艾姆

斯：爱荷华州立大学出版社，1998 年。

Taddei, I., et al. “Spasmolytic Activity of Peppermint, Sage, and Rosemary Essences and Their Major Constituents.”

Fitoterapia 59 (1988): 463–8.

塔代伊，I.，等人。 “薄荷、鼠尾草和迷迭香精华及其主要成分的解痉活性。” Fitoterapia 59 (1988): 463–8。

Takagi, K., K. Watanabe, and Y. Ishi, “Peptic Ulcer Inhibiting Activity of Licorice Root.”

Takagi, K.、K. Watanabe 和 Y. Ishi，“甘草根的消化性溃疡抑制活性”。

Proceedings of the 7th International Congress of Pharmacology 7, no. 2 (1965): 1–15.

第七届国际药理学大会论文集 7，no。 2（1965）：1-15。

Tangri, K. K., et al. “Biochemical Study of Anti-Inflammatory and Antiarthritic Properties of Glycyrretic Acid.”

Biochemical Pharmacology 14 (1965): 1277–81.

Tangri，K.K.，等人。 “甘草酸抗炎和抗关节炎特性的生化研究。”生化药理学 14 (1965): 1277–81。

=== PAGE 602 ===
Tarle, D., J. Petricic, and M. Kupinic. “Antibiotic Effects of Aucubin, Saponins and Extract of Plantain Leaf—Herbe

or Folium Plantago Lanceolata.” Farmaceutski Glasnik 37 (1981): 351–4.

Tarle, D.、J. Petricic 和 M. Kupinic。 “桃叶珊瑚苷、皂苷和车前草叶提取物（草本植物或车前草叶）的抗生

素作用。” Farmaceutski Glasnik 37 (1981): 351–4。

Tellington-Jones, Linda, with Sybil Taylor. The Tellington TTouch: A Revolutionary Natural Method to Train and

Care for Your Favorite Animal. New York: Penguin, 1995.

泰林顿-琼斯、琳达和西比尔·泰勒。 Tellington TTouch：一种训练和照顾您喜爱的动物的革命性自然方法。

纽约：企鹅出版社，1995 年。

Teng, C. M., et al. “Antiplatelet and Vasorelaxing Actions of the Acetoxy Derivative of Cedranediol Isolated from

Juniperis squamata.” Planta Medica 60 (1994): 209–13.

滕，C.M.，等人。 “从刺柏中分离出的雪松二醇乙酰氧基衍生物的抗血小板和血管舒张作用。”植物医学 60

(1994): 209–13。

Thompson, Diana. “Too Much of a Good Thing.” AERC Endurance News, Oct. 1992.

汤普森、戴安娜. “好事太多了。” AERC 耐力新闻，1992 年 10 月。

Tiekert, Carvel G., DVM. “Editor’s Comments.” AHVMA Journal 15 (May/July 1996): 4.

蒂克特，卡维尔 G.，DVM。 “编辑的评论。” AHVMA 期刊 15（1996 年 5 月/7 月）：4。

Tilford, Gregory L. Edible and Medicinal Plants of the West. Missoula, Mont.: Mountain Press, 1997.

格雷戈里·L·蒂尔福德。《西方食用和药用植物》。蒙大拿州米苏拉：山地出版社，1997 年。

———. From Earth to Herbalist. Missoula, Mont.: Mountain Press, 1998.

———。从地球到草药师。蒙大拿州米苏拉：山地出版社，1998 年。

Tomodo, M., et al. “Hypoglycemic Activity of Twenty Plant Mucilages and Three Modified Products.” Planta

Medica 53 (1987): 8–12.

托莫多，M.，等人。 “二十种植物粘液和三种改性产品的降血糖活性。” Planta Medica 53 (1987): 8–12。

Tozyo, T., et al. “Novel Antitumor Sesquiterpenoids in Achillea Millefolium.” Chemical and Pharmaceutical

Bulletin (Tokyo) 42 (May 1994): 1096–100.

Tozyo，T.，等人。 “蓍草中的新型抗肿瘤倍半萜类化合物。”化学和制药公报（东京）42（1994 年 5

月）：1096–100。

Tyler, Varro E., PhD. Herbs of Choice: The Therapeutic Use of Phytomedicinals. Binghamton, New York:

Pharmaceutical Products Press, 1994.

泰勒，瓦罗 E.，博士。选择的草药：植物药物的治疗用途。宾厄姆顿，纽约：药品出版社，1994 年。

———. “Saint-John’s-Wort: The Leading Herb for Mild to Moderate Depression.” Natural Pharmacy 1 (Feb.

1997): 8.

———。 “圣约翰草：治疗轻度至中度抑郁症的主要草药。”天然药学 1（1997 年 2 月）：8。

=== PAGE 603 ===
Van Den Broucke Co. “The Therapeutic Value of Thymus species.” Fitoterapia 4 (1983): 171–4.

Van Den Broucke Co.“胸腺物种的治疗价值。” Fitoterapia 4 (1983): 171–4。

———and J. A. Lernli. “Pharmacological and Chemical Investigation of Thyme Liquid Extracts.” Planta Medica

41 (1981): 129–35.

———和 J. A. Lernli。 “百里香液体提取物的药理学和化学研究。”植物医学 41 (1981): 129–35。

Vandergrift, Bill, PhD. “Helping Horses That Tie Up.” Modern Horse Breeding, Sept. 1994.

范德格里夫特，比尔，博士。 “帮助拴马。”现代马育种，1994 年 9 月。

Vest, M. “Vitamin K in Medical Practice.” Vitamins and Hormones 24 (1966): 649–63.

Vest, M.“医疗实践中的维生素 K”。维生素和激素 24 (1966)：649–63。

Vlamis, Gregory, and Helen Graham. Bach Flower Remedies for Animals. Forres, Scotland: Words Distributing Co.,

1999.

弗拉米斯、格雷戈里和海伦·格雷厄姆。巴赫动物花疗法。苏格兰福里斯：Words Distributing Co.，1999

年。

Volhard, Wendy, and Kerry Brown, DVM. The Holistic Guide for a Healthy Dog. New York: Howell Book House,

Macmillan, 1995.

Volhard、Wendy 和 Kerry Brown，DVM。健康狗的整体指南。纽约：豪威尔书屋，麦克米伦，1995 年。

Walker, Kaetheryn. Homeopathic First Aid for Animals: Tales and Techniques from a Country Practitioner.

Rochester, Vt.: Healing Arts Press, 1998.

沃克，凯瑟琳。动物顺势疗法急救：来自乡村医生的故事和技术。佛蒙特州罗彻斯特：治疗艺术出版社，

1998 年。

Wargovich, M. J., et al. “Chemoprevention of N-Nitrosomethylbenzylamine-Induced Esophageal Cancer in Rats by

the Naturally Occurring Diallyl Sulfide.” Cancer Research 48, Dec. 1, 1988, 6872–5.

瓦尔戈维奇，M.J.，等人。 “天然存在的二烯丙基硫醚对 N-亚硝基甲基苄胺诱发的大鼠食道癌进行化学预

防。”癌症研究 48，1988 年 12 月 1 日，6872–5。

Weiss, Rudolf Fritz, MD. Herbal Medicine. Beaconsfield Publishing, UK: Beaconsfield, 1988.

韦斯，鲁道夫·弗里茨，医学博士。草药。英国比肯斯菲尔德出版社：比肯斯菲尔德，1988 年。

Weng, X. S., et al. “Treatment of Leucopenia with Pure Astragalus Preparation: An Analysis of 115 Leucopenic

Cases.” Clinical Trial, Wuxi TCM Hospital, Jiangsu. Zhongguo Zhong Xi Yi Jie He Za Zhi. 15 (Aug. 1995): 462–4.

翁X.S.，等。 “纯黄芪制剂治疗白细胞减少症：115例白细胞减少症病例分析”。临床试验，江苏无锡中医

院。中国中西医结合杂志。 15（1995 年 8 月）：462–4。

Werbach, Melvyn R., MD, and Michael T. Murray. Botanical Influences on Illness: A Sourcebook of Clinical

Research. Tarzana, Calif.: Third Line Press, 1994.

=== PAGE 604 ===
Werbach、Melvyn R.（医学博士）和 Michael T. Murray。植物对疾病的影响：临床研究资料手册。加利福尼

亚州塔扎纳：第三线出版社，1994 年。

Weston, C., et al. “Veno-Occlusve Disease of the Liver Secondary to Ingestion of Comfrey.” British Medical

Journal 295 (1987): 183.

韦斯顿，C.，等人。 “摄入紫草后继发的肝静脉闭塞病。”英国医学杂志 295（1987）：183。

White, P. “Essential Fatty Acids: Use in Management of Canine Atopy.” Compendium 15 (1993): 451.

White, P.“必需脂肪酸：用于治疗犬特应性皮炎。”纲要 15（1993）：451。

Wohlfart, R., et al. “The Sedative-Hypnotic Principle of Hops.” Communication: Pharmacology of 2-Methyl-3-

Buten-2-Ol. Planta Medica 48 (1983): 120–3.

沃尔法特，R.，等人。 “啤酒花的镇静催眠原理。”通讯：2-甲基-3-丁烯-2-Ol 的药理学。植物医学 48

(1983): 120–3。

Wolff, H. G., DVM. Your Healthy Cat: Homeopathic Medicines for Common Feline Ailments. Berkeley, Calif.:

North Atlantic Books, 1991.

沃尔夫，H.G.，DVM。您的健康猫：治疗常见猫科疾病的顺势疗法药物。加利福尼亚州伯克利：北大西洋

图书，1991 年。

Wren, R. C. Potter’s New Encyclopedia of Botanical Drugs and Preparations, ed. E. W. Williamson and F. J.

Evans. Saffron Walden, Essex, UK: Daniel, 1988.

雷恩，R.C.波特植物药物和制剂新百科全书，编辑。 E.W.威廉姆森和F.J.埃文斯。 Saffron Walden，英国埃

塞克斯：丹尼尔，1988 年。

Wulff-Tilford, Mary, and Gregory L. Tilford. Herbal Remedies for Dogs and Cats: A Pocket Guide to Selection and

Use. Conner, Mont.: Mountain Weed, 1997.

玛丽·武尔夫-蒂尔福德和格雷戈里·蒂尔福德。狗和猫的草药：选择和使用的袖珍指南。蒙大拿州康纳：

Mountain Weed，1997。

Wysong, R. L. Rationale for Animal Nutrition. Midland, Calif.: Inquiry Press, 1993.

Wysong，R.L. 动物营养原理。加利福尼亚州米德兰：调查出版社，1993 年。

Yang, G., and P. Geng. “Effects of Yang-Promoting Drugs on Immunological Functions of Yang-Deficient Animal

Induced by Prednisolone.” Journal of Traditional Chinese Medicine 4, no. 2 (1984): 153–6.

杨 G. 和 P. Geng。 “升阳药物对泼尼松龙所致阳虚动物免疫功能的影响”。中医药杂志4，第4期。

2（1984）：153-6。

Yarnall, Celeste. Cat Care Naturally. New York: Charles E. Tuttle, 1995.

亚纳尔，塞莱斯特。猫的自然护理。纽约：查尔斯·E·塔特尔，1995。

Zhang, N. D., et al. “Effects of Astragalus Saponin 1 on cAMP and cGMP Level in Plasma and DNA Synthesis in

Regenerating Rat Liver.” Acta Pharmaceutica Sinica 19, no. 8 (1984): 619–21.

=== PAGE 605 ===
张，N.D.，等人。 “黄芪皂苷 1 对大鼠肝脏再生过程中血浆 cAMP 和 cGMP 水平以及 DNA 合成的影

响。”药学报 19, no. 8（1984）：619-21。

Zheng, G. Q., and P. M. Kenney, “Anethofuran, Carvone, and Limonene: Potential Cancer Chemopreventative

Agents from Dill Weed Oil and Caraway Oil.” Planta Medica 58 (1992): 338–41.

郑 G. Q. 和 P. M. Kenney，“茴香呋喃、香芹酮和柠檬烯：来自莳萝草油和香菜油的潜在癌症化学预防

剂。”植物医学 58 (1992): 338–41。

=== PAGE 606 ===
Index

指数

=== PAGE 607 ===
A

acemannan

乙酰甘露聚糖

acquired metabolic dysfunctions

获得性代谢功能障碍

acupuncture

针刺

acute anxiety/hyperactivity

急性焦虑/多动症

acute nervousness/anxiety

急性紧张/焦虑

adaptogenic herbs

适应原草药

Addison’s disease (hypoadrenocorticism)

艾迪生氏病（肾上腺皮质功能减退症）

adrenal glands. See Addison’s disease; Cushing’s disease

肾上腺。参见阿狄森氏病；库欣病

adrenal-stimulatory actions

肾上腺刺激作用

Adverse Effects of Herbal Drugs (DeSmet)

草药的副作用（DeSmet）

aggression/depression disorders

攻击性/抑郁症

aging

老化

AIDS

艾滋病

ajoene

阿霍内

alantolactone

木香内酯

alcohol extracts or tinctures

酒精提取物或酊剂

alfalfa (Medicago sativa): about; anticancer herbs; appetite stimulant; arthritis; blood disorders; broad-spectrum

minerals/vitamins /proteins; burns and scalds; fractures; toxicity

苜蓿（Medicago sativa）：关于；抗癌草药；食欲兴奋剂；关节炎;血液疾病；广谱矿物质/维生素/蛋白质；

烧伤和烫伤；骨折；毒性

allergies

过敏

=== PAGE 608 ===
all-purpose first aid oil/salve

通用急救油/药膏

aloe (Aloe spp.)

芦荟（芦荟属）

Alternative and Complementary Veterinary Medicine: Principles and Practice (Belfield)

替代和补充兽医学：原则和实践（贝尔菲尔德）

alternative herbs: allergies; basic start-up apothecary; blood structure build up; fleas; tea or whole form

替代草药：过敏；基本的初创药剂师；血液结构建立；跳蚤；茶或整体形式

American licorice (Glycyrrhiza lepidota )

美国甘草（Glycyrriza lepidota）

American Veterinary Medical Association (AVMA)

美国兽医协会 (AVMA)

amino acids

氨基酸

amoebicidal

杀阿米巴的

Anakit or Epipen

Anakit 或 Epipen

anaphylactic reaction

过敏反应

Anderson, Linda A.

安德森，琳达 A.

animal behaviorists

动物行为主义者

Animal Essentials

动物必需品

Animal Poison Control Center

动物毒物控制中心

animals: acute allergic reactions; acute nervousness/anxiety; aggression/depression disorders; anticancer diet;

appetite loss/malabsorption; arthritis/hip dysplasia; asthma; basic tonic formula; behavior of; bronchitis and kennel

cough; cancer; cardiovascular problems; caring of; charcoal for poisoning; chiropractic adjustments; in chronic

depression; colic and flatulence; common ailments of; constipation; coughing and sneezing; diarrhea; digestive

dependency; digestive upset; dosage suggestions; ear problems; elderly care; epilepsy/convulsions/seizures; eye

problems; first aid; food; hair balls; health care diary; herb usage for; and herbal curatives; herbal dietary adjunct;

holistic veterinarians; hospices for; humankind and nature; immune system care; inflammatory bowel disease; leaky

gut syndrome; liver/digestive functions diet; mouth problems; nose and sinus problems; nutritive herbs for;

parasites; pneumonia and pulmonary edema; pregnancy; problematic plant compounds; purpose of; skin problems;

tonic support formula; toxicity; urinary problems

动物：急性过敏反应；急性紧张/焦虑；攻击性/抑郁症；抗癌饮食；食欲不振/吸收不良；关节炎/髋关节发

育不良；哮喘;基本补品配方；的行为；支气管炎和犬窝咳；癌症;心血管问题；照顾；木炭用于中毒；脊椎

按摩调整；慢性抑郁症；绞痛和胀气;的常见病；便秘;咳嗽和打喷嚏；腹泻;消化依赖性；消化不良;剂量建

议；耳朵问题；老人护理;癫痫/抽搐/惊厥；眼睛问题；急救;食物;毛球；保健日记；草药用途；和草药；草

药膳食补充剂；整体兽医；临终关怀医院；人类与自然；免疫系统护理；炎症性肠病；肠漏综合征；肝脏/

消化功能饮食；口腔问题；鼻子和鼻窦问题；营养草药；寄生虫；肺炎和肺水肿；怀孕;有问题的植物化合

=== PAGE 609 ===
物；目的;皮肤问题;滋补支持配方；毒性;泌尿问题

anorexia. See appetite loss/malabsorption

厌食症。参见食欲减退/吸收不良

anthraquinones

蒽醌类

antibiotic therapies

抗生素疗法

anticancer diet/herbs

抗癌饮食/草药

antihistamine qualities

抗组胺特性

anti-inflammatory: eyebright; herbs; inflammatory bowel disease; kidney/bladder inflammation; licorice; pyoderma

抗炎：小米草；草药;炎症性肠病；肾脏/膀胱炎症；甘草；脓皮病

antimicrobials: bear medicine properties; bites and stings; ear problems; gingivitis; herbs; infection prevention;

licorice; nose drops; oil infusions; tinctures

抗菌剂：具有药物特性；咬伤和蜇伤；耳朵问题；牙龈炎;草药;预防感染；甘草；滴鼻剂；输油；酊剂

anti-osteoarthritic agents

抗骨关节炎药物

antioxidant vitamins

抗氧化维生素

antiparasitic drugs

抗寄生虫药

antiparasitic ear oil

抗寄生虫耳油

antiviral qualities for heart infections

心脏感染的抗病毒特性

antiworm food supplement

抗蠕虫食品补充剂

anxiety

焦虑

Apis and Ledum

蜜蜂和杜香

appetite loss/malabsorption

食欲减退/吸收不良

appetite stimulant

食欲兴奋剂

arachnids. See mites

蜘蛛纲动物。查看螨虫

arnica (Arnica spp.)

山金车（山金车属）

arnica oil

=== PAGE 610 ===
山金车油

arteriosclerosis. See cardiovascular problems

动脉硬化。查看心血管问题

arthritis

关节炎

arthritis/hip dysplasia

关节炎/髋关节发育不良

ashwaganda (Withania somnifera)

南非醉茄（Withania somnifera）

asthma. See also allergies; immune system

哮喘。另请参阅过敏；免疫系统

astragalus (Astragalus membranaceous ): about; antibiotic therapies; antiviral qualities for heart infections;

autoimmune deficiency; boost immune response; immune system; increase energy levels; kennel cough; stress;

thyroid; weak kidney function

黄芪（黄芪）：大约；抗生素疗法；心脏感染的抗病毒特性；自身免疫缺陷；增强免疫反应；免疫系统;提

高能量水平；犬窝咳；压力;甲状腺;肾功能弱

astringents: eyewash; herbs; for inflammation; mucous membranes; skin rinse

收敛剂：洗眼液；草药;用于炎症；粘膜；皮肤冲洗

autoimmune attack on joints

自身免疫性关节攻击

autoimmune disease or deficiency

自身免疫性疾病或缺陷

Ayurvedic medicine

阿育吠陀医学

=== PAGE 611 ===
B

bacis formula for colic

绞痛的基础配方

bacterial infection

细菌感染

bacterial/fungal infections

细菌/真菌感染

bacteriostatic

抑菌的

Barnaulove, O. D.

巴尔瑙洛夫，O.D.

basic preparation of herbs

草药的基本准备

basic start-up apothecary

基本初创药剂师

basic support formula

基本支持公式

basic tonic formula

基本滋补配方

bear medicine (Ligusticum porteri)

熊药（Ligusticum porteri）

bee balm (M. fistulosa)

蜂香膏（M. fistulosa）

bee balm (Monarda spp.)

蜂香膏（Monarda spp.）

bee or wasp sting

蜜蜂或黄蜂蜇伤

beeswax

蜂蜡

behavior of animals

动物的行为

behavior trainer

行为训练师

Belfield, Wendell O.

贝尔菲尔德，温德尔·O.

berberine

小檗碱

Beta-Sitosterol, a phytosterol

=== PAGE 612 ===
β-谷甾醇，一种植物甾醇

bilberry (Vaccinium myrtillus)

越橘（Vaccinium myrtillus）

bile production/transport

胆汁产生/运输

birds

鸟类

bite (Mallophaga)

咬（Mallophaga）

bites and stings

咬伤和蜇伤

bitter herbs

苦菜

black plague and juniper

黑死病和杜松

black walnut hull tincture

黑胡桃壳酊剂

black walnut (Juglans nigra)

黑胡桃木（Juglans nigra）

bladder/kidney problems

膀胱/肾脏问题

bladder/kidney stones

膀胱/肾结石

bleeding

流血的

blood and urine tests

血液和尿液检查

blood circulation

血液循环

blood disorders

血液疾病

blood flow, coronary

血流量，冠状动脉

blood structure build up

血液结构建立

blue cohosh (Caulophyllum thalictroides )

蓝升麻 (Caulophyllum thalictroides )

body systemic dysfunction

身体系统功能障碍

body temperature

=== PAGE 613 ===
体温

bone/joint repair

骨/关节修复

bones, fresh raw

骨头，新鲜生的

boneset (Eupatorium perfoliatum)

接骨木（Eupatorium perfoliatum）

borage (Borago officinalis)

琉璃苣（Borago officinalis）

borax products

硼砂产品

border collies

边境牧羊犬

Bordetella bronchiseptica

支气管败血博德特氏菌

boswellia (Boswellia serrata)

乳香 (Boswellia serrata)

Botanical Influences on Illness, a Sourcebook of Clinical Research (Werbach)

植物对疾病的影响，临床研究资料书 (Werbach)

bovine/shark cartilage

牛/鲨鱼软骨

brain dysfunction

脑功能障碍

bran and hair balls

麸皮和毛球

brewer’s yeast/vitamin B complex

啤酒酵母/复合维生素 B

broad-spectrum minerals, vitamins, and proteins

广谱矿物质、维生素和蛋白质

bronchitis and kennel cough

支气管炎和犬窝咳

bugleweed (Lycopus spp.)

野草（Lycopus spp.）

burdock (Arctium lappa): about; blood structure; itching and inflammation; liver stimulant; seborrhea, pyoderma,

rheumatoid diseases; waste elimination

牛蒡（Arctium lappa）：大约；血液结构；瘙痒和炎症；肝脏兴奋剂；皮脂溢、脓皮病、类风湿病；消除废

物

burns and scalds

烧伤和烫伤

=== PAGE 614 ===
C

calculi

结石

calendula (Calendula officinalis)

金盏花（金盏花）

calendula rinse

金盏花冲洗

camphor

樟

cancer

癌症

cancerous tumors

癌性肿瘤

candida albicans

白色念珠菌

canine adenovirus II

犬腺病毒II

canine herpes virus (CHV)

犬疱疹病毒（CHV）

capsicum

辣椒

caraway (Carum carvi)

香菜（Carum carvi）

cardiogenic shock

心源性休克

cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR)

心肺复苏 (CPR)

cardiovascular efficiency

心血管效率

cardiovascular problems

心血管问题

cardiovascular tonics

心血管补品

care of animals

照顾动物

carminatives

驱风剂

Carnivora

=== PAGE 615 ===
食肉目

cascara sagrada (Rhamnus purshiana )

鼠李 (Rhamnus purshiana)

cataracts

白内障

catnip (Nepeta cataria)

猫薄荷（荆芥）

cats: asthma; body temperature; capsicum; cardiovascular problems in; cataracts; catnip; cayenne; contact

dermatitis; convulsions; CPR; Crohn’s disease; echinacea; epilepsy; ethylene glycol; FLUTD; fresh chickweed;

garlic; goldenrod; goldenseal; grass and vomiting; grindelia; hair balls; hepatic lipidosis; herbal ointments;

hyperthyroidism; kennel cough; litter box dust; lobelia; marshmallow; motion sickness; mouth problems;

nepetalactone; nervous behavior; oatmeal and itching; otitis externa; pancreatitis less common; raspberry leaf tea;

ringworm; saliva antimicrobial properties; sensitive to pennyroyal; strokes/heart attacks; systemic detoxification

therapy; taurine; urolithiasis; and willow bark; yucca

猫：哮喘；体温;辣椒;心血管问题；白内障；猫薄荷；辣椒;接触性皮炎;抽搐；心肺复苏；克罗恩病;紫锥

菊；癫痫;乙二醇; FLUTD；新鲜繁缕；蒜;一枝黄花；金印章；草和呕吐；格林德利亚;毛球；肝脂质沉积

症;草药膏；甲状腺功能亢进症;犬窝咳；垃圾箱灰尘；半边莲;棉花糖；晕车；口腔问题；荆芥内酯；紧张

的行为；燕麦片和瘙痒；外耳炎;胰腺炎较少见；覆盆子叶茶；癣;唾液抗菌特性；对彭尼罗敏感；中风/心

脏病发作；全身排毒治疗；牛磺酸；尿石症;和柳树皮；丝兰

cat’s claw (Uncaria tomentosa)

猫爪草（Uncaria tomentosa）

Cat’s Claw—Healing Vine of Peru (Jones)

猫爪草——秘鲁的治疗藤蔓（琼斯）

cattle

牛

cayenne (Capsicum spp.): about; cats/dogs/horses; fractures; increase circulation; peripheral/joint circulation; strain

and sprain ointment

辣椒（Capsicum spp.）：关于；猫/狗/马；骨折；增加血液循环；末梢/关节循环；拉伤扭伤软膏

cayenne/yarrow mix

辣椒/欧蓍草混合

celery (Apium graveolens)

芹菜（芹菜）

celery seed

芹菜种子

Chamaemelum nobile (Roman chamomile)

Chamaemelum nobile（罗马洋甘菊）

chamomile (Matricaria recutita)

洋甘菊（Matricaria recutita）

chamomile/valerian/catnip

洋甘菊/缬草/猫薄荷

chaparral (Larrea tridentata)

丛林 (Larrea tridentata)

charcoal for poisoning

=== PAGE 616 ===
木炭中毒

chemical components of medicinal plants

药用植物的化学成分

chemical/energetic properties of plants

植物的化学/能量特性

chickweed (Stellaria media)

繁缕（繁缕）

chickweed tea

繁缕茶

Chinese medicine

中医

chiropractic adjustments

脊椎按摩调整

chokecherry. See wild cherry bark (Prunus virginiana)

樱桃。参见野樱桃树皮 (Prunus virginiana)

cholagogue herbs

利胆药草

chorioptic mange (genus Chorioptis)

绒毛疥癣（Chorioptis属）

chronic arthritis

慢性关节炎

chronic constipation

慢性便秘

chronic convulsive disorders

慢性惊厥性疾病

chronic depression

慢性忧郁症

chronic diarrhea/vomiting

慢性腹泻/呕吐

chronic diseases, and aging

慢性疾病和衰老

chronic infections

慢性感染

chronic problems

慢性问题

chronic seizures treatment

慢性癫痫发作治疗

chronic skin problems

慢性皮肤问题

Chrysanthemum Oxeye daisy

=== PAGE 617 ===
菊花 牛眼菊

Cineraria maritima

瓜叶菊

circulation improvement

循环改善

circulation increase

循环增加

circulation of tissue-cleansing lymph areas

组织清洁淋巴区域的循环

circulatory tonics for internal use

内用循环补品

clay poultice

粘土膏剂

cleavers (Galium aparine)

切肉刀（Galium aparine）

closed-tissue injuries

闭合性组织损伤

cocoa butter

可可脂

coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10)

辅酶 Q10 (CoQ10)

cognitive dysfunction

认知功能障碍

colic and flatulence

绞痛和胀气

colitis

结肠炎

colon

冒号

coltsfoot (Tussilago species)

款冬（款冬属）

comfrey (Symphytum officinale)

紫草（Symphytum officinale）

common ailments of animals

动物的常见疾病

common uses of herbs

草药的常见用途

Complete New Herbal (Mabey)

完整的新草药（Mabey）

congestive heart failure

=== PAGE 618 ===
充血性心力衰竭

conjunctivitis

结膜炎

constipation

便秘

contact dermatitis

接触性皮炎

contusions

挫伤

contusions/blunt trauma injuries oil

挫伤/钝伤油

conventional medicines

常规药物

conventional wormers

传统驱虫剂

convulsions

抽搐

coriander (Coriandrum sativum)

香菜（Coriandrum sativum）

corn silk (Zea mays)

玉米须（Zea mays）

Cornell University

康奈尔大学

coronary blood flow

冠状动脉血流量

corticosteroid drug therapies

皮质类固醇药物治疗

couch grass (Agropyron repens)

沙发草（Agropyron repens）

coughing and sneezing

咳嗽和打喷嚏

coumarins

香豆素类

CPR. See cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR)

心肺复苏。请参阅心肺复苏 (CPR)

cranberry (Vaccinium macrocarpon)

蔓越莓（Vaccinium macrocarpon）

creosote bush. See chaparral (Larrea tridentata)

杂酚油灌木。参见丛林 (Larrea tridentata)

Crohn’s disease

=== PAGE 619 ===
克罗恩病

cures and animals

治疗方法和动物

curly dock. See yellow dock (Rumex crispus)

卷曲的码头。参见黄坞（Rumex curpus）

Cushing’s disease

库欣病

cystitis

膀胱炎

cysts and tumors

囊肿和肿瘤

=== PAGE 620 ===
D

dandelion (root and leaf)

蒲公英（根和叶）

dandelion leaf (Taraxacum officinale): about; appetite stimulant; broad-spectrum minerals, vitamins, and proteins;

vs. furosemide (Lasix); herbal diuretic; itching and inflammation; joint repair; pulmonary edema

蒲公英叶 (Taraxacum officinale): 大约;食欲兴奋剂；广谱矿物质、维生素和蛋白质；与呋塞米（Lasix）相

比；草药利尿剂；瘙痒和炎症；关节修复；肺水肿

dandelion leaf tea

蒲公英叶茶

dandelion leaves

蒲公英叶

dandelion root

蒲公英根

decoctions

汤剂

degenerative arthritis

退行性关节炎

degenerative joint disease. See degenerative arthritis

退行性关节疾病。参见退行性关节炎

dehydration

脱水

delta-6 desaturase (D6D)

delta-6 去饱和酶 (D6D)

demodectic mange

蠕形螨

demulcent herbs

镇痛草药

depression, chronic

抑郁症，慢性

dermatitis

皮炎

dermatophytosis

皮肤癣菌病

DeSmet, P.A.G.M.

德斯梅特，P.A.G.M.

devil’s claw (Harpagophytum procumbens)

魔鬼爪（Harpagophytum procumbens）

diabetes mellitus

糖尿病

=== PAGE 621 ===
diabetic dogs/cats

患有糖尿病的狗/猫

diarrhea

腹泻

diatomaceous earth

硅藻土

diet: and allergies; basic support formula; and cancer; cats and FLUTD; changes in; chronic diarrhea /vomiting; and

constipation; critical assessment of; diabetes mellitus; feeding the skin; fresh raw bones; heart health; herbs;

hyperthyroidism; inflammatory bowel disease; and kidney failure; leaky gut syndrome; nutritive herbs; program for

aging; pyoderma-related disorder; raw food diet for cats; seborrhea; supportive functions; urinary disease; worm

prevention; yogurt

饮食：和过敏；基本支持公式；和癌症；猫和 FLUTD；改变在;慢性腹泻/呕吐；和便秘；批判性评估；糖

尿病；喂养皮肤；新鲜的生骨头；心脏健康;草药;甲状腺功能亢进症;炎症性肠病；和肾功能衰竭；肠漏综

合征；营养草药；老龄化计划；脓皮病相关疾病；猫的生食饮食；皮脂溢;支持功能；泌尿系统疾病；蠕虫

预防；酸奶

digestive and urinary cysts, ulcers

消化道和泌尿道囊肿、溃疡

digestive dependency

消化依赖性

digestive disease

消化系统疾病

digestive enzymes

消化酶

digestive probiotics

消化益生菌

digestive system

消化系统

digestive tract and worms

消化道和蠕虫

digestive upset

消化不良

dill (Anethum graveolens)

莳萝（Anethumgravolens）

dimethylglycine

二甲基甘氨酸

Dirofilaria immitis (heartworm)

恶丝虫（心丝虫）

discoid lupus erythematosus (DLE)

盘状红斑狼疮 (DLE)

diseases

疾病

diuretics: allergies; herbs; parsley; pneumonia; pyoderma; shepherd’s purse; systemic waste removal; tea or whole

=== PAGE 622 ===
form; urination

利尿剂：过敏；草药;香菜;肺炎;脓皮病;荠菜；系统性废物清除；茶或整体形式；排尿

Do Dogs Need Shrinks? (Neville)

狗需要收缩吗？ （内维尔）

dogs: active breeds; Addison’s disease; asthma; body temperature; cancer warning signs; capsicum; cardiovascular

problems in; catnip; cayenne; cognitive dysfunction; contact dermatitis; CPR; DLE; echinacea; ethylene glycol;

fresh chickweed; goldenrod; grass and vomiting; grindelia; heartworm; hip dysplasia; hypothyroidism; kennel

cough; l-carnitine; and longevity; marshmallow; motion sickness; mouth problems; Newfoundland; oatmeal and

itching; otitis externa; pancreatitis; ringworm; saliva antimicrobial properties; seborrhea; seizures; skullcap and

epileptic; strokes/heart attacks; urinary system infections

狗：活跃品种；艾迪生氏病；哮喘;体温;癌症警告信号；辣椒;心血管问题；猫薄荷；辣椒;认知功能障碍；

接触性皮炎;心肺复苏；动态LE；紫锥菊；乙二醇;新鲜繁缕；一枝黄花；草和呕吐；格林德利亚;心丝虫;髋

关节发育不良;甲状腺功能减退症;犬窝咳；左旋肉碱；和长寿；棉花糖；晕车；口腔问题；纽芬兰；燕麦片

和瘙痒；外耳炎;胰腺炎;癣;唾液抗菌特性；皮脂溢;癫痫发作；黄芩和癫痫；中风/心脏病发作；泌尿系统感

染

dosage/duration therapy

剂量/持续时间治疗

dried bulk material

干燥的散装材料

dry cough formula

干咳配方

Dryden, Michael W.

德莱顿，迈克尔 W.

dyspepsia, flatulence, colic

消化不良、胀气、绞痛

dysuria

排尿困难

=== PAGE 623 ===
E

E. coli

大肠杆菌

ear infections

耳部感染

ear mange

耳疥疮

ear mites uncommon in horses

马中罕见的耳螨

ear problems

耳朵问题

eating habits

饮食习惯

echinacea (Echinacea spp.): about; antibiotic therapies; arthritis; autoimmune deficiency; bacterial or viral

infections; cats and dogs; for colic horses; heartworm; immune system; kennel cough; natural defenses stimulate;

and oregon grape clay poultice; urinary tract; wounds

紫锥菊（Echinacea spp.）：关于；抗生素疗法；关节炎;自身免疫缺陷；细菌或病毒感染；猫和狗;对于绞痛

的马；心丝虫;免疫系统;犬窝咳；自然防御刺激；和俄勒冈葡萄粘土膏剂；泌尿道；伤口

edema

浮肿

EFA supplements: allergies; borage; and cancer; flaxseed; pancreatitis; parasites; repair joint tissue damage

EFA补充剂：过敏；琉璃苣；和癌症；亚麻籽；胰腺炎;寄生虫；修复关节组织损伤

“Effects of Boswellia serrata gum resin in patients with ulcerative colitis” (Gupta)

“齿叶乳香树胶树脂对溃疡性结肠炎患者的影响”(Gupta)

elderly animal care

老年动物护理

elecampane (Inula helenium)

土木香（土木香）

emergency situations for horses

马的紧急情况

emotional/behavioral/nervous disorders, causes of

情绪/行为/神经障碍，原因

endocrine system diseases

内分泌系统疾病

energy levels increased

能量水平增加

Entamoeba histolytica

溶组织内阿米巴

epilepsy/convulsions/seizures

=== PAGE 624 ===
癫痫/抽搐/抽搐

Epipen or Anakit

Epipen 或 Anakit

erratic heartbeat

心律不齐

essential fatty acids

必需脂肪酸

essential fatty acids (EFAs). See EFA supplements

必需脂肪酸（EFAs）。请参阅全民教育补充剂

Essiac formula

精华配方

estrogenic (phytoestrogens) compounds

雌激素（植物雌激素）化合物

ethical use of herbs

草药的道德使用

ethylene glycol

乙二醇

eucalyptus (Eucalyptus globulus)

桉树（蓝桉）

eucalyptus honey

桉树蜂蜜

evening primrose (Oenothera biennis )

月见草 (Oenothera biennis)

evening primrose (Oenothera spp.)

月见草（Oenothera spp.）

Everclear

永清

external healing

外治法

external origin, skin problems

外因、皮肤问题

external wounds

外伤

external/internal healing

外部/内部治疗

extinction risk of plants

植物灭绝风险

eye problems

眼睛问题

eyebright (Euphrasia officinalis)

=== PAGE 625 ===
小米草 (Euphrasia officinalis)

eyebright (Euphrasia sp.)

小米草 (Euphrasia sp.)

eyes

眼睛

=== PAGE 626 ===
F

FDA. See U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)

美国食品和药物管理局。请参阅美国食品和药物管理局 (FDA)

feline immunodeficiency virus. See FIV

猫免疫缺陷病毒。参见国际汽联

feline infectious peritonitis (FIP)

猫传染性腹膜炎（FIP）

feline leukemia virus (FeLV)

猫白血病病毒（FeLV）

feline lower urinary tract disease (FLUTD)

猫下尿路疾病 (FLUTD)

feline urinary syndrome (FUS). See also feline lower urinary tract disease (FLUTD)

猫泌尿综合症（FUS）。另请参见猫下尿路疾病 (FLUTD)

feline viral rhinotracheitis (FVR)

猫病毒性鼻气管炎（FVR）

felines

猫科动物

fennel (Foeniculum vulgare)

茴香（Foeniculum vulgare）

fenugreek (Trigonella foenumgraecum )

胡芦巴（Trigonella foenumgraecum）

fever

发烧

feverfew (Tanacetum parthenium)

小白菊（Tanacetum partheium）

fiber and antioxidant compounds

纤维和抗氧化化合物

fibrosarcoma

纤维肉瘤

fibrous tissue injuries

纤维组织损伤

first aid: animals; bites and stings; burns and scalds; contusions; contusions/blunt trauma injuries oil;

echinacea/oregon grape clay poultice; fractures; heatstroke/hyperthermia/heat exhaustion; homeopathic travel kit;

ideas for kit; motion sickness; penetrating injuries; poisoning; for seizures; shock; tendonitis/sprains/ligament

injuries

急救：动物；咬伤和蜇伤；烧伤和烫伤；挫伤；挫伤/钝伤油；紫锥菊/俄勒冈葡萄粘土膏剂；骨折；中暑/

体温过高/热衰竭；顺势疗法旅行套装；套件的想法；晕车；穿透伤；中毒；用于癫痫发作；震惊;肌腱炎/

扭伤/韧带损伤

first aid oil/salve

急救油/药膏

=== PAGE 627 ===
FIV

flatulence

胀气

flax (Linum spp.)

亚麻（亚麻属）

flaxseed, ground

亚麻籽，磨碎的

flea repellent powder

驱跳蚤粉

fleabane (Conyza canadensis)

蓬（Conyza canadensis）

fleas

跳蚤

flower essence formula

花精配方

FLUTD. See feline lower urinary tract disease (FLUTD)

FLUTD。请参阅猫科动物下尿路疾病 (FLUTD)

fomentations

热敷

food: Addison’s disease; allergies; animals; fiber and antioxidant compounds; sebaceous cysts; severe allergies

食物：艾迪生氏病；过敏；动物;纤维和抗氧化化合物；皮脂腺囊肿;严重过敏

fractures

骨折

fresh chickweed

新鲜繁缕

fresh herbs

新鲜的香草

From Earth to Herbalist (Tilford)

从地球到草药师（蒂尔福德）

fungal infections

真菌感染

furosemide (Lasix)

呋塞米（Lasix）

=== PAGE 628 ===
G

G. biloba extract (GBE)

银杏提取物 (GBE)

G6PD. See Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD)

G6PD。请参见 6-磷酸葡萄糖脱氢酶 (G6PD)

GABA. See gammaaminobutyric acid (GABA)

伽马氨基丁酸。参见γ氨基丁酸 (GABA)

gallbladder congestion

胆囊充血

gallbladder functions

胆囊功能

gammaaminobutyric acid (GABA)

γ氨基丁酸 (GABA)

gamma-linolenic acid (GLA)

γ-亚麻酸 (GLA)

garlic (Allium sativum): about; appetite stimulant; cats; coronary blood flow; fleas; giardiasis; immune system;

kennel cough; mite prevention; and mullein ear oil; worms

大蒜（Allium sativum）：大约；食欲兴奋剂；猫;冠状动脉血流量；跳蚤；贾第鞭毛虫病；免疫系统;犬窝

咳；预防螨虫；和毛蕊花耳油；蠕虫

gastritis

胃炎

gastrointestinal (GI) or urinary inflammation

胃肠道 (GI) 或泌尿道炎症

GBE. See G. biloba extract (GBE)

GBE。参见银杏提取物 (GBE)

general purpose antimicrobial

通用抗菌剂

gentian (Gentiana lutea)

龙胆（Gentiana utea）

German chamomile (M. recutita)

德国洋甘菊 (M. recutita)

German shepherds

德国牧羊犬

GI or urinary inflammation

胃肠道或泌尿道炎症

giardiasis

贾第鞭毛虫病

ginger (Zingiber officinale)

生姜（Zingiber officinale）

=== PAGE 629 ===
gingivitis

牙龈炎

ginkgo (Ginkgo biloba): about; arthritis; blood circulation; brain dysfunction; improves/increase circulation; urinary

irritations

银杏（Ginkgo biloba）：关于；关节炎;血液循环;脑功能障碍；改善/增加血液循环；泌尿系统刺激

ginseng (Panax spp.)

人参（Panax spp.）

ginseng, certified-organic

人参，有机认证

GLA. See gamma-linolenic acid (GLA)

GLA。参见 γ-亚麻酸 (GLA)

glaucoma

青光眼

Glonoinum

格罗诺努姆

glucosamine/chondroitin sulfate

氨基葡萄糖/硫酸软骨素

Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD)

6-磷酸葡萄糖脱氢酶 (G6PD)

glutathione s-transferase (GST)

谷胱甘肽 S-转移酶 (GST)

glycerin tincture

甘油酊剂

glycerites

甘油酯

goats

山羊

goldenrod (Solidago spp.)

一枝黄花（一枝黄花属）

goldenseal (Hydrastis canadensis)

金毛茛 (Hydrastis canadensis)

goldenseal, certified organic

金印章，有机认证

goldthread (Coptis spp.)

金线（Coptis spp.）

gotu kola (Centella asiatica)

积雪草（Centella asiatica）

grain alcohol (Everclear)

谷物酒精（Everclear）

grass and vomiting

草和呕吐

=== PAGE 630 ===
gravelroot (Eupotorium purpureum)

砾根（Eupotorium purpureum）

green or bentonite clay

绿色或膨润土

green revolution

绿色革命

grindelia (Grindelia squarrosa)

粗石榴 (Grindelia squarrosa)

ground flaxseed

亚麻籽粉

GST. See glutathione s-transferase (GST)

商品及服务税。请参见谷胱甘肽 s-转移酶 (GST)

Gupta.

古普塔.

=== PAGE 631 ===
H

habitat and range

栖息地和范围

Hachimijiogan

八味鱼庵

hair balls

毛球

hair loss

脱发

Hamburg parsley (P. crispum var. tuberosum)

汉堡欧芹 (P. Criscum var. tuberosum)

harvesting of wild plants

收获野生植物

hawthorn (Crataegus sp.): about; arthritis; blood circulation; coronary blood flow; heartbeat; strengthens cardiac

output

山楂 (Crataegus sp.): 大约；关节炎;血液循环;冠状动脉血流量；心跳；增强心输出量

healing

康复

health care diary

保健日记

healthful living and ancient cultures

健康的生活和古老的文化

heart disorders

心脏疾病

heart health

心脏健康

heart problem treatment

心脏问题治疗

heartbeat

心跳

heartworm

心丝虫

heat exhaustion

中暑

heat-related illness

与热有关的疾病

heatstroke/hyperthermia/heat exhaustion

中暑/高热/热衰竭

heavy metal toxicity

=== PAGE 632 ===
重金属毒性

Heinz bodies

亨氏小体

hematuria

血尿

hemorrhage

出血

hemorrhagic shock

失血性休克

hemostatic agent

止血剂

hemostatic and astringent herbs

止血和收敛草药

hepatic lipidosis

肝脂质沉积症

herbal curatives

草药

herbal diuretic

草药利尿剂

herbal ear oil

草药耳油

herbal medicine: alcohol extracts or tinctures; all-purpose first aid oil/salve; Animal Essentials dry herb and vitamin

formula; antimicrobial nose drops; antimicrobial tinctures; antimicrobial/antiparasitic ear oil; antiworm food

supplement; arthritis relief compress; astringent eyewash; astringent healing skin rinse; Ayurvedic medicine; bacis

formula for colic; and balanced nutrition; basic support formula; Cineraria maritima; circulatory tonics for internal

use; clay poultice; comfrey oil/salve/poultice; contusions /blunt trauma injuries oil; decoctions; dosage/duration

therapy; dried bulk material; dry cough formula; ear oil; echinacea and oregon grape clay poultice; fibrous tissue

injuries; first aid oil; flea repellent powder; fomentations; formula for inflammatory bowel disease; fresh herbs;

garlic and mullein ear oil; general purpose antimicrobial; giardiasis remedy; glycerites; herb capsules; horsetail

decoction; inflammatory bowel disease therapies; inhalation therapy; kidney failure formula; laxative herbs; licorice

infusion; oil infusion; Oregon grape/goldenseal w/licorice tincture; plants; pneumonia formula; poultices; pyrethrin

flea rinse; raspberry infusion; raspberry leaf tea; rose tea; saline eye rinse; salves and ointments; scratching

w/oozing; simple astringent eyewash; standardized extracts; strain and sprain ointment; symptomatic relief formula;

systemic detoxification therapy; systemic detoxifying formula; TCM; tonic formula for chronic constipation; tonic

support formula; toxicity; triple-punch herbal flea rinse; urinary incontinence formula; urinary infections/stones

formula; upset stomach remedies; uva ursi decoction; water infusions (herb teas); water soluble herbs; Western

herbalism; wet cough formula

草药：酒精提取物或酊剂；通用急救油/药膏； Animal Essentials 干草本和维生素配方；抗菌滴鼻剂；抗菌

酊剂；抗菌/抗寄生虫耳油；抗蠕虫食品补充剂；减轻关节炎压力；收敛性洗眼液；收敛愈合皮肤冲洗；阿

育吠陀医学；绞痛的基础配方；和均衡的营养；基本支持公式；瓜叶菊；内用循环补品；粘土膏剂；紫草

油/药膏/膏药；挫伤/钝伤油；汤剂；治疗剂量/持续时间；干燥的散装材料；干咳配方；耳油；紫锥菊和俄

勒冈葡萄粘土膏剂；纤维组织损伤；急救油；驱跳蚤粉；热敷；炎症性肠病配方；新鲜的香草;大蒜和毛蕊

花耳油；通用抗菌剂；贾第虫病治疗；甘油；草药胶囊；马尾汤；炎症性肠病治疗；吸入疗法；肾衰竭配

方；泻药草药；甘草输液；输油；俄勒冈葡萄/金印甘草酊剂；植物;肺炎配方；膏药；除虫菊酯冲洗跳蚤；

覆盆子浸液；覆盆子叶茶；玫瑰花茶；生理盐水冲洗眼睛；药膏和药膏；抓伤/渗血；简单的收敛洗眼液；

标准化提取物；拉伤和扭伤药膏；症状缓解配方；全身排毒治疗；全身排毒配方；中医；慢性便秘滋补

=== PAGE 633 ===
方；滋补支持配方；毒性;三重草药跳蚤冲洗液；尿失禁配方；尿路感染/结石配方；胃部不适的补救措施；

熊果汤；水输液（药草茶）；水溶性草药；西方草药学；湿咳配方

Herbal Medicines, a Guide for Health Care Professionals (Newall)

草药，医疗保健专业人员指南 (Newall)

herbal nervines

草药神经

herbal ointments

草药膏

herbal remedies

草药疗法

herbal therapies

草药疗法

herbalist

草药师

herbs: alternative to Prozac; alternatives; alternatives and adjuncts; anti-inflammatories; antimicrobials; appearance;

astringents; availability; basic preparation of; cancer treatment; capsules; cardiovascular tonics; care of animals;

carminatives; cautions and comments; common uses; conventional drug substitutes; cycle and bloom season;

demulcents; and diet; dietary adjunct; as dietary supplements; diuretics; ethical use of; factors for substitution;

fashionable use of; fresh; functional adjuncts; habitat and range; healing potential of; healing powers; for immune

system; immunotonics; and lactation; lymphatics; medicinal actions; nervines and sedatives; nutritives; parts used;

and pregnancy; preparation; primary medicinal activities; propagation and harvest; references; soaplike saponin

constituents; strongest affinities; systemic affinity; tannin constituents; treating the symptoms; usage for animals;

useful internally; vulneraries

草药：百忧解的替代品；备择方案;替代品和辅助品；抗炎药；抗菌剂；外貌;收敛剂；可用性;基本准备；

癌症治疗；胶囊；心血管补品；照顾动物；驱风剂；注意事项和评论；常见用途；常规药物替代品；周期

和开花季节；镇痛剂；和饮食；饮食辅助剂；作为膳食补充剂；利尿剂；合乎道德的使用；替代因素；时

尚的使用；新鲜的;功能辅助品；栖息地和范围；的治愈潜力；治愈能力；对于免疫系统；免疫补剂；和哺

乳期；淋巴管；药用作用；神经紧张和镇静剂；营养品；使用的零件；和怀孕；准备;主要药物活性；繁殖

和收获；参考;肥皂样皂苷成分；最强的亲和力；系统亲和力；单宁成分；治疗症状；用于动物；内部有

用；伤处

Herbs of Choice: The Therapeutic Use of Phytomedicinals (Tyler)

选择的草药：植物药物的治疗用途（泰勒）

herpes simplex virus (HSV)

单纯疱疹病毒（HSV）

hip dysplasia

髋关节发育不良

holistic approaches: arthritis; cancer; complete nutrition; digestive probiotics; epilepsy/convulsions /seizures; nature

connection; parasites; skin problems; Western medicine

整体方法：关节炎；癌症;营养全面；消化益生菌；癫痫/抽搐/癫痫发作；自然联系；寄生虫；皮肤问题;西

药

holistic herbalist

整体草药师

holistic medicine

整体医学

holistic synergy

=== PAGE 634 ===
整体协同

holistic veterinarians: animals; blood and urine tests; and cancer; capsicum; and GLA; hip dysplasia causes; and

kidney failure; lobelia and asthma; Saint-John’s-wort

整体兽医：动物；血液和尿液检查；和癌症；辣椒;和 GLA；髋关节发育不良的原因；和肾功能衰竭；半边

莲和哮喘；圣约翰草

holistic vs. Western medicine views

整体与西医观点

homeopathic arnica

顺势疗法山金车

homeopathic care

顺势疗法护理

homeopathic eyedrops

顺势疗法眼药水

homeopathic travel kit

顺势疗法旅行套装

homeopathic veterinarians

顺势疗法兽医

homeostasis

体内平衡

hookworms

钩虫

hop (Humulus lupulus)

啤酒花（啤酒花）

horses: and appetite stimulants; behavior trainer; and black walnut; capsicum; cayenne; colic; ear mites uncommon;

echinacea for colic; emergency situations; fresh chickweed; fungal infections; psoroptic mange; red clover;

rosemary

马：食欲兴奋剂；行为训练师；和黑胡桃木；辣椒;辣椒;绞痛;耳螨不常见；紫锥菊治疗绞痛；紧急情况；

新鲜繁缕；真菌感染；疥疮；红三叶草；迷迭香

horsetail (Equisetum arvense)

马尾草 (Equisetum arvense)

horsetail decoction

马尾汤

horsetail herb

马尾草

horseweed. See fleabane (Conyza canadensis)

马草。参见 蓬 (Conyza canadensis)

hospices for animals

动物收容所

Hoxsey formula

霍克西公式

HSV. See herpes simplex virus (HSV)

=== PAGE 635 ===
单纯疱疹病毒。参见单纯疱疹病毒 (HSV)

huang qi

黄旗

huckleberry leaf (Vaccinium sp.)

越橘叶（Vaccinium sp.）

hyperadrenocorticism

肾上腺皮质机能亢进

hyperthermia

高热

hyperthyroidism

甲状腺功能亢进症

hypertrophic cardiomyopathy

肥厚型心肌病

hypoadrenocorticism

肾上腺皮质机能减退症

hypothyroidism

甲状腺功能减退症

=== PAGE 636 ===
I

ice pack application

冰袋应用

immune system: Addison’s disease; allergies; animals; astragalus; boost immune response; cat’s claw; disease

intervention; diseases; dysfunction and arthritis; echinacea; function of; garlic; ginseng; herbs for; and homeostasis;

leaky gut syndrome; parasites; pyoderma; skin diseases; skin problems

免疫系统：艾迪生病；过敏；动物;黄芪；增强免疫反应；猫爪；疾病干预；疾病；功能障碍和关节炎；紫

锥菊；的功能；蒜;参;草药；和体内平衡；肠漏综合征；寄生虫；脓皮病;皮肤病;皮肤问题

immunostimulant herbs

免疫增强草药

immunostimulants

免疫增强剂

immunotonics

免疫补剂

infection prevention herbs

预防感染草药

inflammation

炎

inflammatory arthritis

炎症性关节炎

inflammatory bowel disease

炎症性肠病

inhalation therapy

吸入疗法

injuries

受伤

insect repellent

驱虫剂

internal origin skin problems

内源性皮肤问题

internal parasites

体内寄生虫

internal use herbs

内服草药

intestinal obstructions

肠梗阻

intestinal tract

肠道

intestinal worms

=== PAGE 637 ===
肠道蠕虫

iodine

碘

iron

铁

Italian parsley (P. crispus var. neapolitanum)

意大利欧芹 (P. Crispus var. neapolitanum)

itching relief

止痒

itching/inflammation

瘙痒/炎症

ivermectin

伊维菌素

=== PAGE 638 ===
J

jewelweed (Impatiens capensis)

宝石草（Impatiens capensis）

jittery anxiety

紧张不安

joint deterioration, wear-and-tear

关节恶化、磨损

joint inflammations

关节炎症

joint relief

联合救济

joint repair

关节修复

Jones, Kenneth

琼斯，肯尼思

joshua tree (Y. brevifolia)

约书亚树（Y. brevifolia）

juniper (Juniperus spp.)

杜松（杜松属）

=== PAGE 639 ===
K

kava kava (Piper methysticum)

卡瓦卡瓦 (Piper methysticum)

Keep Your Pet Healthy the Natural Way (Lazarus)

以自然的方式让您的宠物保持健康 (Lazarus)

kelp (Fucus vesiculosus)

海带（墨角藻）

kennel cough (Bordetella bronchiseptica )

犬窝咳（支气管败血博德特氏菌）

kidney failure

肾功能衰竭

kidney/bladder stones

肾/膀胱结石

kidneys

肾脏

kinnikinnick. See uva ursi (Arctostaphylos uva-ursi)

金尼金尼克。参见 熊 (Arctostaphylos uva-ursi)

=== PAGE 640 ===
L

lactation

哺乳期

lavender (Lavandula angustifolia)

薰衣草（Lavandula angustifolia）

laxative

泻药

Lazarus, Pat

帕特·拉撒路

l-carnitine

左旋肉碱

lead poisoning

铅中毒

leaky gut syndrome

肠漏综合征

lemon balm (Melissa officinalis)

柠檬香蜂草（Melissa officinalis）

leprosy (mycobacteriosis)

麻风病（分枝杆菌病）

lice

虱子

licorice (Glycyrrhiza glabra): about; anti-inflammatory; anti-inflammatory alternative; antimicrobials; fractures;

giardiasis; inflamed skin; inflammation; internal use; itching /inflammation; lice/mite infection; liver damage; skin

conditions; ulcer

甘草（Glycyrriza glabra）：大约；消炎（药;抗炎替代品；抗菌剂；骨折；贾第鞭毛虫病；皮肤发炎；炎;内

部使用;瘙痒/炎症；虱子/螨虫感染；肝损害;皮肤状况；溃疡

licorice (Glycyrrhiza spp.)

甘草（甘草属）

licorice infusion

甘草浸剂

limonene

柠檬烯

litter box dust

垃圾箱灰尘

liver

肝

liver and gallbladder functions

肝胆功能

liver congestion

=== PAGE 641 ===
肝脏充血

liver damage

肝损害

liver generating herbs

生肝草药

liver repair

肝脏修复

liver stimulant

肝脏兴奋剂

liver supporting herbs (hepatics)

护肝草药（护肝）

liver/digestive functions

肝脏/消化功能

lizards

蜥蜴

llamas

美洲驼

lobelia (Lobelia inflata)

半边莲（半边莲）

lovage (Levisticum officinale)

独活草（Levisticum officinale）

lupus

狼疮

lymph circulation

淋巴循环

lymphatic herbs

淋巴草本

lymphocytes

淋巴细胞

lymphosarcoma (leukemia)

淋巴肉瘤（白血病）

=== PAGE 642 ===
M

Mabey, R.

梅比，R.

maceration

浸渍

malabsorption

吸收不良

malignant tumors

恶性肿瘤

mange

疥疮

marshmallow (Althaea officinalis): about; inflammation; kidney/bladder stones; respiratory, digestive, and urinary

irritations; toxic waste removal; urinary tract

棉花糖（Althaea officinalis）：大约；炎;肾/膀胱结石；呼吸道、消化道和泌尿系统刺激；有毒废物清除；

泌尿道

marshmallow root

棉花糖根

Martindale: The Extra Pharmacopeia (Reynolds)

马丁代尔：额外药典（雷诺兹）

meadowsweet (Filipendula ulmaria)

绣线菊 (Filipendula ulmaria)

medicinal actions

药用作用

medicinal plants

药用植物

Medline Web site

医疗线网站

menstruation (emmenagogue)

月经（调经）

menstruum preparation

月经准备

metabolic imbalance

代谢失衡

milk thistle seed

水飞蓟种子

milk thistle (Silybum marianum)

水飞蓟 (Silybum marianum)

milk vetch (A. americana)

紫云英 (A. americana)

=== PAGE 643 ===
mineral- and vitamin-rich herbs

富含矿物质和维生素的草药

miniature poodles

迷你贵宾犬

mites

螨虫

mobility loss and aging

行动能力丧失和衰老

Mojave yucca (Y. schidigera)

莫哈韦丝兰 (Y. schidigera)

mood elevators

情绪电梯

mosquitoes and heartworm

蚊子和心丝虫

Mother Earth

地球母亲

motion sickness

晕车

mouth problems

口腔问题

mucous membrane inflammation

粘膜炎症

mucous membranes

粘膜

mullein (Verbascum thapus)

毛蕊花（毛蕊花）

mullein flowers

毛蕊花

multiflora rose (R. multiflora)

多花玫瑰（R. multiflora）

Murray, Michael T.

穆雷，迈克尔·T.

muscle twitching/restlessness

肌肉抽搐/不安

myocardial inflammation

心肌炎症

myrrh (Commiphora molmol)

没药（Commiphora molmol）

=== PAGE 644 ===
N

n-acetylglucosamine

n-乙酰氨基葡萄糖

natural defenses stimulate

自然防御刺激

Natural Health for Dogs & Cats (Pitcairn)

狗和猫的自然健康（皮特凯恩）

natural laxative

天然泻药

nature

自然

nepetalactone

荆芥内酯

nerve injuries

神经损伤

nervines and sedatives

神经紧张和镇静剂

nervous behavior

紧张行为

nervous system tonic

神经系统补品

nervousness

紧张

nettle (Urtica dioica)

荨麻 (Urtica dioica)

nettle (Urtica spp.): antihistamine action; broad-spectrum minerals, vitamins, and proteins; conjunctivitis,

dermatitis; fractures; heat-related illness; toxicity; urine production stimulant

荨麻 (Urtica spp.)：抗组胺作用；广谱矿物质、维生素和蛋白质；结膜炎，皮炎;骨折；与热有关的疾病；毒

性;尿液产生兴奋剂

neurological disorders

神经系统疾病

Neville, Peter

内维尔，彼得

Newall, Carol A.

纽厄尔，卡罗尔 A.

Newfoundland

纽芬兰

nordihydroguaiaretic acid (NDGA)

去甲二氢愈创木酸 (NDGA)

=== PAGE 645 ===
Northern bedstraw (G. boreale)

北方床稻草 (G. booleale)

nose and sinus problems

鼻子和鼻窦问题

nutrition: balanced; complete; herbs and lactation; holistic healing; and parasite infection; parasites; pyoderma; and

urinary stones

营养：均衡；完全的;草药和哺乳；整体治疗；和寄生虫感染；寄生虫；脓皮病;和尿路结石

nutritive herbs

营养草药

=== PAGE 646 ===
O

oat (Avena sativa)

燕麦（Avena sativa）

oat straw (Avena sativa)

燕麦秆（Avena sativa）

oatmeal and itching

燕麦片和瘙痒

oil infusions

输油

olbas oil and homeopathic care

奥尔巴斯油和顺势疗法护理

olive oil

橄榄油

omega-3 essential fatty acids (EFAs)

omega-3 必需脂肪酸 (EFA)

oregano (Oreganum vulgare or O. heracleoticum)

牛至（Oregano）

Oregon grape (Mahonia aquifolium): about; appetite stimulant; bacterial infection or giardiasis; bile production

/transport; conjunctivitis; general purpose antimicrobial; infection; kidneys; liver and gallbladder functions; mite

infection; mucous membrane inflammation; waste elimination; wounds

俄勒冈葡萄（Mahonia aquifolium）：大约；食欲兴奋剂；细菌感染或贾第虫病；胆汁产生/运输；结膜炎;通

用抗菌剂；感染;肾脏；肝脏和胆囊功能；螨虫感染；粘膜炎症；消除废物；伤口

Oregon grape (Mahonia spp.)

俄勒冈葡萄（Mahonia spp.）

organs, activating/regulating

器官，激活/调节

osteoarthritis

骨关节炎

otitis externa

外耳道炎

otodectic ear mange

耳科耳疥疮

ovariohysterectomy

卵巢子宫切除术

oxalic acid and oxalates

草酸和草酸盐

oxeye daisy (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum )

牛眼菊 (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum )

=== PAGE 647 ===
P

PAF. See platelet aggregation factor (PAF)

帕夫。参见血小板聚集因子 (PAF)

pancreas

胰腺

parainfluenza

副流感

parasites

寄生虫

parasitic worm (Dirofilaria immitis)

寄生虫（恶丝虫）

parasitic/bacterial/fungal infection

寄生虫/细菌/真菌感染

parsley (Petroselinum crispum)

欧芹（Petroselinum Criscum）

parsley (Umbelliferae)

欧芹（伞形科）

parsley root

欧芹根

passionflower (Passiflora incarnata): about; fractures; mood elevators; motion sickness; relaxing mood elevator;

sedative drugs alternative; sedative herbs

西番莲（Passiflora incarnata）：关于；骨折；情绪电梯；晕车；放松情绪电梯；镇静药物替代品；镇静草

药

patent ductus arteriosus

动脉导管未闭

pennyroyal (Hedeoma pulegioides)

彭尼罗亚 (Hedeoma pulegioides)

pennyroyal (Mentha pulegium)

薄荷 (Mentha pulegium)

“Pennyroyal Oil Poisoning and Hepatotoxicity” (Sullivan)

“彭尼罗油中毒和肝毒性”（沙利文）

“Pennyroyal Oil Toxicosis in a Dog” (Sudekum)

“狗的彭尼罗油中毒”（Sudekum）

peppermint (Mentha piperita): about; appetite stimulant; brain dysfunction; dyspepsia, flatulence, colic; itching

relief; scratching with oozing; upset stomach

薄荷（Mentha Piperita）：大约；食欲兴奋剂；脑功能障碍；消化不良，胀气，绞痛;止痒；抓伤并有渗液；

胃部不适

percolation

渗滤

=== PAGE 648 ===
peripheral/joint circulation

周围/关节循环

petroleum jelly and hair balls

凡士林和毛球

Phillipson, J. David

菲利普森，J·大卫

physiological disorders

生理障碍

pineapple weed (M. matricarioides)

菠萝草 (M. matricarioides)

pineapple weed (Matricaria matricarioides )

菠萝草（母菊）

pipsissewa (Chimaphila spp.)

pipsissewa（Chimaphila spp.）

pipsissewa (Chimaphila umbellata)

pipsissewa（Chimaphila umbellata）

Pitcairn, Richard

皮特凯恩，理查德

Pitcairn, Susan Hubble

皮特凯恩，苏珊·哈勃

plant drug

植物药

plant medicines and animal care

植物药物和动物护理

plant usage

植物用途

plantain (Plantago major)

车前草（大车前草）

plantain (Plantago sp.)

车前草（Plantago sp.）

plants: chemical/energetic properties of; dandelion complete food; extinction risk; green revolution; herbal

medicine; parsley; pyrethrin-bearing plants; source of healing; thymol

植物：化学/能量特性；蒲公英全食品；灭绝风险；绿色革命；草药；香菜;含除虫菊酯的植物；治愈之源；

百里香酚

platelet aggregation factor (PAF)

血小板聚集因子（PAF）

pneumonia and pulmonary edema

肺炎和肺水肿

pointer

指针

poisoning

=== PAGE 649 ===
中毒

polyarthritis

多关节炎

poultices

膏药

prednisolone

泼尼松龙

pregnancy

怀孕

“Preliminary Evaluation of the Spasmolytic Properties of Some Natural Compounds and Galenic Preparations”

(Barnaulove)

“一些天然化合物和盖伦制剂的解痉特性的初步评价”（Barnaulove）

probiotic bacteria

益生菌

problematic plant compounds

有问题的植物化合物

Prozac (fluoxetine HCI)

百忧解（盐酸氟西汀）

psoroptic mange (genus Psoroptes)

牛皮疥癣（牛皮癣属）

psychotropic drugs

精神药物

psyllium husk

车前子壳

pulmonary edema

肺水肿

pyoderma

脓皮病

pyoderma-related disorder

脓皮病相关疾病

pyrethrin flea rinse

除虫菊酯冲洗跳蚤

pyrethrin-bearing plants

含除虫菊酯的植物

pyrethrins

除虫菊酯

pyrrolizidine alkaloids

吡咯里西啶生物碱

=== PAGE 650 ===
Q

quack grass. See couch grass (Agropyron repens)

嘎嘎草。参见沙发草（Agropyron repens）

=== PAGE 651 ===
R

rabbits

兔子

raspberry (Rubus sp.)

覆盆子（Rubus sp.）

raspberry leaf (Rubus idaeus)

覆盆子叶（Rubus idaeus）

raw food diet for cats

猫的生食饮食

recurrent

经常性的

red clover (Trifolium pratense): about; anticancer herbs; build up blood structure; cysts and tumors of the skin;

horses; tumor-inhibiting properties; tumors, blood disorders

红三叶草（Trifolium pratense）：关于；抗癌草药；建立血液结构；皮肤囊肿和肿瘤；马匹;肿瘤抑制特性；

肿瘤、血液疾病

Red Cross

红十字

red mange (genus Demodex)

红疥螨（蠕形螨属）

relaxing mood elevator

放松心情电梯

renal blood circulation

肾脏血液循环

renal failure and aging

肾衰竭和衰老

repair joint tissue damage

修复关节组织损伤

Rescue Remedy®

救援补救®

respiratory, digestive, and urinary irritations

呼吸道、消化道和泌尿道刺激

respiratory function

呼吸功能

Reynolds, J.E.F.

雷诺兹，J.E.F.

rheumatoid arthritis

类风湿关节炎

ringworm

癣

=== PAGE 652 ===
Rodriguez, Eloy

埃洛伊·罗德里格斯

rose (Rosa spp.)

玫瑰（蔷薇属）

rose hips

玫瑰果

rose tea

玫瑰茶

rosemary (Rosmarinus officinalis)

迷迭香（Rosmarinus officinalis）

rotenone

鱼藤酮

roundworms

蛔虫

Russian comfrey (S. uplandicum)

俄罗斯紫草 (S. uplandicum)

=== PAGE 653 ===
S

Sabota, A.E.

萨博塔，A.E.

sage (Salvia officinalis)

鼠尾草（Salvia officinalis）

sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata)

山艾（Artemisia tridentata）

Saint-John’s-wort (Hypericum perforatum ): about; autoimmune deficiency; brain dysfunction; chronic depression;

contusions; fractures; herbal alternative to Prozac; holistic veterinarians; soft-tissue injuries; wounds

圣约翰草（贯叶连翘）：大约；自身免疫缺陷；脑功能障碍；慢性忧郁症;挫伤；骨折；百忧解的草药替代

品；整体兽医；软组织损伤；伤口

Saint-John’s-wort (Hypericum spp.)

圣约翰草（金丝桃属）

salicylates

水杨酸盐

saliva antimicrobial properties

唾液抗菌特性

salves and ointments

药膏和药膏

saponins

皂甙

sarcoptic mange (Sarcoptes scabiei )

疥螨 (Sarcoptes scabiei)

saw palmetto (Serenoa repens)

锯棕榈（Serenoa repens）

scalds and burns

烫伤和烧伤

scientific validations

科学验证

scratching with oozing

抓伤并渗出

sebaceous cysts

皮脂囊肿

seborrhea

皮脂溢

seborrhea, pyoderma, rheumatoid diseases

皮脂溢、脓皮病、类风湿病

sedative drugs alternative

镇静药物替代品

=== PAGE 654 ===
sedative herbs

镇静草药

seizures

癫痫发作

selenium

硒

senna (Cassia angustifolia)

番泻叶（Cassia angustifolia）

senna (Cassia angustifolia or C. senna)

番泻叶（Cassia angustifolia 或 C. senna）

septic shock

感染性休克

sheep

羊

shepherd/husky

牧羊犬/哈士奇

shepherd’s purse (Capsella bursa-pastoris )

荠菜 (Capsella bursa-pastoris )

shock

震惊

siberian ginseng (Eleuthrococcus senticosus)

西伯利亚人参（刺五加）

silicosis

矽肺

silymarin

水飞蓟素

simple astringent eyewash

简单的收敛洗眼液

skin conditions

皮肤状况

skin diseases

皮肤病

skin problems

皮肤问题

skin/mouth infections

皮肤/口腔感染

skullcap (Scutellaria laterifolia): about; epilepsy; fractures; motion sickness; sedative drugs alternative; sedative

herbs; valerian or passionflower

黄芩（Scutellaria Laterifolia）：大约；癫痫;骨折；晕车；镇静药物替代品；镇静草药；缬草或西番莲

skullcap (Scutellaria spp.)

黄芩（Scutellaria spp.）

=== PAGE 655 ===
slippery elm (Ulmus fulva): about; general astringent action; GI or urinary inflammation; inflammation;

respiratory/digestive/urinary irritations; toxic waste removal

滑榆 (Ulmus fulva): 大约;一般收敛作用；胃肠道或泌尿系统炎症；炎;呼吸系统/消化系统/泌尿系统刺激；有

毒废物清除

Smith, R.A.

史密斯，R.A.

sneezing and couching

打喷嚏和躺卧

soft-tissue injuries

软组织损伤

Soloway, M.S.

索洛韦，硕士

spirulina (Spirulina spp.)

螺旋藻（螺旋藻属）

spotted gravelroot (Eupatorium maculatum )

斑砾根 (Eupatorium maculatum)

Staffordshire bull terrier

斯塔福郡斗牛犬

standardized extracts

标准化提取物

sterile saline

无菌生理盐水

steroidal saponins

甾体皂甙

sterols

甾醇

stings and bites

叮咬

strain and sprain ointment

拉伤扭伤软膏

stress

压力

strokes/heart attacks

中风/心脏病发作

suck blood (Anopleura)

吸血（Anopleura）

Sudekum, M.

苏德库姆，M.

sulfasalazine (Azulfidine)

柳氮磺吡啶（Azulfidine）

Sullivan, J.B.

=== PAGE 656 ===
沙利文，J.B.

symptomatic herbal

对症草药

symptomatic relief formula

症状缓解配方

synergy

协同作用

systemic affinity

系统亲和力

systemic detoxification therapy

全身排毒疗法

systemic detoxifying formula

全身排毒配方

systemic dysfunction

全身功能障碍

systemic problems

系统性问题

systemic support formula

系统支持公式

systemic waste removal

系统性废物清除

=== PAGE 657 ===
T

T cells

T细胞

tannin constituents

单宁成分

tannins

单宁

tansy (Tanacetum vulgare)

艾菊（Tanacetum vulgare）

tapeworms

绦虫

taurine

牛磺酸

TCM. See traditional Chinese medicine (TCM)

中医。参见中医（TCM）

tea or whole form

茶或整体形式

tea tree oil

茶树油

tendonitis/sprains/ligament injuries

肌腱炎/扭伤/韧带损伤

thiacetarsamide

硫代乙酰胺

thiamine deficiency

硫胺素缺乏症

threadworms

线虫

thyme (Thymus spp.)

百里香（百里香属）

thyme (Thymus vulgaris)

百里香（百里香）

thymol

百里香酚

thyroid

甲状腺

thyroid gland

甲状腺

thyroid problems

=== PAGE 658 ===
甲状腺问题

thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH)

促甲状腺激素（TSH）

tiger balm

虎标万金油

Tilford, Gregory L.

蒂尔福德，格雷戈里·L.

Tilford Theory

蒂尔福德理论

tincture

酊剂

tonic formula for chronic constipation

慢性便秘滋补方

tonic herbal therapies

滋补草药疗法

tonic support and pregnancy

滋补支持和怀孕

tonic support formula

滋补支持配方

tonics

滋补品

toxic bites

有毒叮咬

toxic waste removal

有毒废物清除

toxicity: alfalfa; arnica; black walnut and horses; borage and PAs; borax products; coltsfoot and PAs; heavy metal;

and herbal ointments; pennyroyal and volatile oils; silymarin

毒性：苜蓿；山金车;黑胡桃木和马；琉璃苣和 PA；硼砂产品；款冬和 PA；重金属;和草药膏；薄荷油和挥

发油；水飞蓟素

toxoplasmosis

弓形体病

traditional Chinese medicine (TCM)

传统中医（TCM）

triple-punch herbal flea rinse

三冲草药跳蚤冲洗液

TSH. See thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH)

促甲状腺激素。请参阅促甲状腺激素 (TSH)

tumeric (Curcuma longa)

姜黄（姜黄）

tumor

瘤

=== PAGE 659 ===
tumors, blood disorders

肿瘤、血液疾病

turkey rhubarb (Rheum palmatum)

火鸡大黄（Rheum palmatum）

turkey rhubarb tincture

火鸡大黄酊剂

turmeric

姜黄

Tyler, Varro E.

泰勒，瓦罗 E.

=== PAGE 660 ===
U

ulcer

溃疡

United Plant Savers

联合植物保护者

upset stomach

胃部不适

urinary incontinence formula

尿失禁公式

urinary infections/stones formula

尿路感染/结石配方

urinary irritations

泌尿系统刺激

urinary problems

泌尿问题

urinary tract

泌尿道

urinary tract and aging

泌尿道与衰老

urine production stimulant

尿液产生兴奋剂

urolithiasis

尿石症

Urtica tincture

荨麻酊剂

U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)

美国食品和药物管理局 (FDA)

usnea (Usnea barbata)

松萝（半枝松萝）

uva ursi (Arctostaphylos uva-ursi)

熊 (Arctostaphylos uva-ursi)

=== PAGE 661 ===
V

valerian (Valeriana officinalis): about; acute anxiety/hyperactivity; antibiotic for eyes/ears/mucous membranes;

anxiety; fractures; motion sickness; sedative herbs

缬草（Valeriana officinalis）：关于；急性焦虑/多动症；用于眼睛/耳朵/粘膜的抗生素；焦虑;骨折；晕车；

镇静草药

valvular degeneration

瓣膜变性

vasodilators

血管扩张剂

vervain (Verbena officinalis)

马鞭草（Verbena officinalis）

veterinarian

兽医

veterinary applications

兽医应用

Veterinary Cancer Society

兽医癌症协会

viral infections

病毒感染

vitamins

维生素

volatile oils

挥发油

vomiting

呕吐

vulneraries

伤处

=== PAGE 662 ===
W

wasp or bee sting

黄蜂或蜜蜂蜇伤

waste elimination

消除废物

water consumption

耗水量

water hemlock (Cicuta spp.)

水毒芹（Cicuta spp.）

water horehound. See bugleweed (Lycopus spp.)

水苦猎犬。参见 bugleweed (Lycopus spp.)

water infusions (herb teas)

水输液（药草茶）

water retention

保水性

water soluble herbs

水溶性草药

weight problems

体重问题

Werbach, Melvyn R.

韦巴赫，梅尔文·R.

Western herbalism

西方草药学

Western medicine

西药

wet cough formula

湿咳配方

whipworms

鞭虫

white oak bark (Quercus sp.)

白橡树皮（Quercus sp.）

wild cherry bark (Prunus virginiana)

野樱桃树皮（Prunus virginiana）

wild plants, harvesting of

野生植物，采收

wild yam (Dioscorea villosa)

野山药（Dioscorea villosa）

willow (Salix spp.)

=== PAGE 663 ===
柳（Salix spp.）

willow bark

柳树皮

witch hazel (Hamamelis virginiana)

金缕梅（金缕梅）

Wood’s rose (Rosa woodsii)

伍德玫瑰（Rosa woodsii）

worm infestation

蠕虫感染

worm prevention

蠕虫预防

wormers

驱虫剂

worms

蠕虫

wormwood (Artimesia absinthium)

艾蒿（艾蒿）

wounds

伤口

Wrangham, Richard

理查德·兰厄姆

Wynn, Susan G.

韦恩，苏珊·G.

=== PAGE 664 ===
Y

yarrow (Achillea millefolium): about; arthritis; blood circulation; contusions; external wounds; improves/increase

circulation; insect repellent; lice/mite infection

欧蓍草 (Achillea millefolium): 关于;关节炎;血液循环;挫伤；外部伤口；改善/增加血液循环；驱虫剂；虱子/

螨虫感染

yarrow tea/liniment

欧蓍草茶/搽剂

yellow dock (Rumex crispus)

黄坞（Rumex curpus）

yogurt

酸奶

yucca (Yucca schidigera): about; appetite stimulant; fractures; internal use; joint inflammations; lice

丝兰 (Yucca schidigera): 关于；食欲兴奋剂；骨折；内部使用;关节炎症；虱子

=== PAGE 665 ===
Z

zoopharmacognosy

动物生药学

=== PAGE 666 ===
1

not for use on cats

不适用于猫

2

Make sure that the tea is absolutely free of particles—you don’t want them in your animal’s eyes!

确保茶中绝对没有颗粒——您不希望它们进入动物的眼睛！

3

Be sure to use only supplement-grade clay (available at health food stores)

确保仅使用补充剂级粘土（保健食品商店有售）

4

See “Basics of Herbal Preparations” in chapter 1 for instructions on how to make an oil infusion.

有关如何制作油浸剂的说明，请参阅第 1 章中的“草药制剂基础知识”。

5

Tinctures are available through most herb retailers

大多数草药零售商都可以买到酊剂

6

This formula eases spastic coughing, fights bacterial infection, and soothes inflamed membranes.

该配方可缓解痉挛性咳嗽、对抗细菌感染并舒缓发炎的粘膜。

7

Tincture, tea, or the pressed juice of the fresh herb must be used

必须使用酊剂、茶或新鲜药草的压榨汁

8

Be sure to use only supplement-grade clay (available at health food stores)

确保仅使用补充剂级粘土（保健食品商店有售）

9

This formula helps to soothe, lubricate, and reduce inflammation of urinary tract tissues, thus helping with the

elimination of stones. The echinacea and Oregon grape help to reduce or prevent infection.

该配方有助于舒缓、润滑和减少尿路组织的炎症，从而有助于消除结石。紫锥菊和俄勒冈葡萄有助于减少

或预防感染。

=== PAGE 667 ===
Text copyright © 2009 by Gregory Tilford and Mary Wulff

文本版权所有 © 2009 Gregory Tilford 和 Mary Wulff

Photographs copyright © 2009 by Gregory Tilford

照片版权所有 © 2009 Gregory Tilford

All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic,

mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise, without the prior written permission of I-5 Press™, except for the inclusion of brief quotations in an

acknowledged review.

版权所有。未经 I-5 Press™ 事先书面许可，不得复制本书的任何部分、将其存储在检索系统中或以任何形式或任何方式（电子、机械、复印、

录音或其他方式）传播，除非在公认的评论中包含简短的引文。

Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data

美国国会图书馆出版数据编目

Tilford, Gregory L.

蒂尔福德，格雷戈里·L.

p. cm.

p。厘米。

Rev. ed. of: All you ever wanted to know about herbs for pets / Mary L. Wulff-Tilford & Gregory L. Tilford. 1999.

修订版。作者：您想了解的有关宠物草药的一切 / Mary L. Wulff-Tilford 和 Gregory L. Tilford。 1999年。

Includes bibliographical references and index.

包括参考书目和索引。

eISBN : 978-1-935-48476-9

电子书号：978-1-935-48476-9

I. Wulff-Tilford, Mary, 1955–II. Wulff-Tilford, Mary, 1955–All you ever wanted to know about herbs for pets. III. Title.

I. 武尔夫-蒂尔福德，玛丽，1955–II。武尔夫-蒂尔福德，玛丽，1955 年——您想了解的有关宠物草药的一切。三．标题。

SF745.5.W86 2008

636.089’5321—dc22

636.089'5321—dc22

2008055534

I-5 Press™

I-5 新闻™

A Division of I-5 Publishing, LLC™

I-5 Publishing, LLC™ 的一个部门

3 Burroughs

3 巴勒斯

Irvine, California 92618

尔湾, 加利福尼亚州 92618

=== PAGE 668 ===
Printed and bound in China

中国印刷和装订

