=== PAGE 1 ===


=== PAGE 2 ===
OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 3 ===
Dedication

To our moms, Jeannine and Salwa (Sally), and every mom around

the world who wants their children to experience the life-changing

benefits of growing up with animals and creating a culture of

kindness by treating pets as important members of the family. And

thank you for nourishing us well. Because of you, we know the

power of healthy food that comes from the heart.

=== PAGE 4 ===
OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 5 ===
Contents

Cover

Title Page

Dedication

Introduction

Part I: The Forever Kitchen

Chapter 1: Feeding Your Forever Pet

Saltwater Produce Soak

Vegetable Wax Remover

Chapter 2: Forever Foods

Eggshell Calcium Powder

How to Grow Sprouts

Chapter 3: Treats and Toppers

Jerkies and Dehydrated Snacks

Meat Jerky

Ground Meat Jerky

Fruit and Vegetable Jerky

Manuka-Glazed Chicken Jerky

Bite-Sized Treats

Medication Marbles

Sneaky Easy Pill Pouches

Avocado Deviled Eggs

=== PAGE 6 ===
Detox Delights

Immune Puree

Low-Fat Turkey Bites

Microbiome Morsels

Meatless Morsels

Jerusalem Artichoke Chips

The Celebration Cake

Green Banana Biscotti

Cookies

Good Old-Fashioned Dog Biscuits

Carrot Cake Cookies

Ginger Bones

Rustic Seed Snacks (Canine “Crackers”)

Three-Ingredient Treats

Banana Honey Tea Biscuits

Herbed Cottage Crumpets

Apple Cinnamon Tarts

Coconut Macaroons

Dr. Holly Ganz’s Prebiotic Cookies

Cool Treats

Lycopene Lickers

Antioxidant Pupsicles

Cognition Cubes

Blue Zone ’Sicles

Longevity Sprout Cubes

Dandelion Gut Cubes

Toppers with a Purpose

Choline Cognition Topper

Cranberry Sardine Chutney

Pinches of Prebiotics

Tabouli Biome Topper

Pad Thai Topper

=== PAGE 7 ===
Tandoori Topper

Fiber Smoothie

Make Your Own Applesauce

Smart Spread

Shrimp Whip

The Ultimate 2.0 Turmeric Paste

Apoptosis Add-Ins (Curcumin Cream Cheese)

DIY Vitamin/Mineral Greens Powder

DIY Lion’s Mane Mushroom Powder

Gelatin, Gravies, Jellies, and Jigglers

How to Make the Perfect Gelatin Consistency

Gelatin Bones (extra firm)

Gut Gummies

Edible Tennis Balls

Mix-and-Match Molds

Forever Fluids

Root Vegetable Super Stew

Best Bone Broth

Building Broths for Health

Belly-Soothing Broth

Brain-Building Broth

Immune Broth

Leftover Longevity Broth

Quick and Easy Low-Histamine Bone Broth

Super-Immune Mushroom Broth

Gingermeric Gravy

Teas, Straight Up

Chapter 4: Complete and Balanced Meals

Basic Beef and Broccoli

Garden-Fresh Goodness

Beef Bourguignon with Mussels

=== PAGE 8 ===
Beef Mexican Fiesta

Argentinian Beef with Chimichurri

California Beef

Indian Beef

Beef Spring Flavors

Filipino Tinola Chicken and Beef

Berry Beef and Chicken Salad

Beef and Chicken Forager’s Delight

Beef and Chicken Gumbo

Chinese Beef and Chicken Stir-Fry

Beef and Chicken Gyros

Ruby Red Beef and Chicken

Beef and Chicken African Stew

Beef and Chicken Surf and Turf

Meat Loaf for Everyone!

Pork Hawaiian Luau

Pork “Roast” with Apples

Pork Pumpkin Patch

“Rojões de Porco”—Portuguese Pork Stew

Bison Kale Hash

Bison Buddha Bowl

Bison Autumn Harvest

Bison Schnitzel with Green Beans

Mango Coconut Curry with Whitefish, Lamb, and Egg

Upgraded Shepherd’s Pie with Whitefish

Lebanese Lamb and Whitefish with Green Beans

Whitefish, Lamb, and Egg Supreme

Traditional Fish, Tomato, and Rice Stew

Brazilian Chicken

“Canja”—Chicken Stew

Part II: The Forever Home

=== PAGE 9 ===
Chapter 5: Indoor and Outdoor Recipes

All-Purpose Cleaner

Disinfectant Spray

Tub/Tile/Sink Disinfecting Spray

Scrub Cleaner

Stone Counter Cleaner

Floor Cleaner

Wood Floor Cleaner

Furniture Polish

Scented Room Spray

Glass Cleaner

Laundry Detergent

Dryer Sheets

Fabric Deodorizer

Carpet Powder Deodorizer

Carpet Cleaner

Simmer Pot Home Scents

DIY, Budget-Friendly Air Purifier

Ant Spray

Weed Remover

Chapter 6: Recipes for the Body

Simple Shampoo

Shampoo for Itchy Skin

Coat Conditioner

Flea Shampoo

Probiotic Rinse for Itchy Pets

DIY Mosquito Spray

DIY Pest Spritz

Coat Refresher Skin Spray

Simple Eye Wash

Ear Cleaner

=== PAGE 10 ===
Toothpaste

Dandelion Oil and Salve

Paw Protector Wax

Paw Soak

Pet Wipes

Authors’ Note

Acknowledgments

In Honor of Our Forever Friends

Index

About the Authors

Also by Dr. Karen Shaw Becker and Rodney Habib

Copyright

About the Publisher

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 11 ===
Introduction

Conqueiros BOBI’S BACKYARD

In January 2023, we began to hear rumors about the existence of a

dog who’d lived well into his twenties—and possibly beyond

thirty. This Forever Dog was Bobi—a soft-coated, medium-sized

brown-and-white rafeiro (meaning mongrel, mutt, or mixed-breed)

from Conqueiros, a small village in west-central Portugal.

We immediately went on a mission to connect with him. Karen

posted an online plea, begging people to contact us if anyone knew

anything about Bobi. Within minutes, we received over a hundred

comments, and within an hour, we were tagged thousands of times.

=== PAGE 12 ===
A few days later, Rodney’s phone pinged with a message:

“Hello Rodney, this is Leonel. Would you like to come to Portugal

and meet Bobi?”

We booked our flight and hopped on a plane as quick as we

could.

We found Bobi and his human companion, Leonel Costa, living

in a house with a massive garden in the front and—during most

years—chickens and rabbits in the backyard. Leonel’s family

grows much of the food they eat, including cabbages, potatoes,

tomatoes, lettuce, cucumbers, parsley, and cilantro. They also visit

the local farmers’ market each week to pick up fresh fish. Bobi had

always eaten homemade meals consisting of healthy human

leftovers, including grilled dourada (gilt-head sea bream), cooked

carrots, broccoli, potatoes (dusted with salt), a chicken broth called

canja, and a bit of broa, a Portuguese corn bread Leonel sprinkled

with olive oil to make it easier for Bobi to swallow.

Right away, Bobi’s diet brought to mind Darcy, a twenty-one-

year-old tiny mixed-breed Forever Dog we’d met several years

before. His parents had fed him home-cooked meals since he was

seven years old, often consisting of fresh salmon, mussels,

turmeric, and a splash of apple cider vinegar as a base. We also

thought back to Maggie, a reportedly thirty-year-old kelpie from

Australia who died in 2016 after a life spent consuming farm-fresh

raw milk, oxtails, and healthy table scraps. These animals had one

thing in common: human-grade, fresh, colorful, nutritious food that

improved every single one of their biological processes.

Bobi had been born in a woodpile in the Costas’ backyard shed,

and he’d spent the bulk of his time outside. In his prime, Bobi

loved to jump over the property walls and chase the mail carrier,

but in his old age he nibbled from the garden, took long walks

through the fruit groves and forest close to their house—always

saying hello to the neighborhood dogs along the way—slept

=== PAGE 13 ===
outside, and lovingly interacted with his family every chance he

got. This active existence was like Augie, the double-decade golden

retriever whose dad told us she swam an hour a day throughout

most of her life, as well as Bluey, the Australian cattle dog (born in

1910), who’d lived for twenty-nine years and five months. Bluey

worked on a farm in Victoria, herding sheep and cattle for his

family. Maggie ran three miles back and forth across her family’s

farm twice a day, seven days a week, for two decades. That’s over

87,000 miles of running in one lifetime.

These Forever Dogs’ owners didn’t know that—according to

the latest science—their simple, commonsense way of life offered

their animals all the variables for exceptional health and longevity:

a varied intake of nutrient-dense, minimally processed foods; daily

exercise; minimal exposure to environmental chemicals and toxins;

low stress; and rich social lives. These habits benefit humans—and

their pets.

While there’s no definitive test for determining the exact age of

a living creature, scientists rely on DNA methylation and telomere

testing to gain insights. Telomeres are the protective caps on

chromosomes that shorten over time and can be used to

approximate biologic age. Telomere testing had been completed

prior to our arrival in Portugal, with results showing Bobi was

between twenty-eight and thirty-two years old. But we were just as

=== PAGE 14 ===
curious as the rest of the world to double-check this, so we also

collected DNA swabs on our visit, sending them for epigenetic

clock testing at Dr. Enikő Kubinyi’s lab in Hungary. Epigenetic

clock swabs reveal DNA methylation patterns that provide an

estimated biologic age, as compared to chronologic age (our birth

year). If a biologic age is higher than the chronologic age, it

suggests accelerated aging, while a lower biologic age may indicate

a slower aging process. Bobi’s DNA results were similar to the

telomere test: his biologic age was between twenty-three and thirty-

five. And despite all the media hoopla surrounding Bobi’s possible

status as the world’s longest living dog on record, Leonel’s

neighbors said it best: this old dog had been around town for

decades . . . clearly, he did something right.

Fatty Acids Help Hair Grow: From the first moment we met

Bobi, one thing that struck us was his thick, shiny coat.

Throughout his entire life, he consumed omega-3-rich foods,

whose fatty acids promote hair growth by increasing the

number of dermal papilla cells (DPC) and their associated

proteins. Oily fish contain lots of the fatty acid

docosahexaenoic acid, or DHA. The dourada it was!

=== PAGE 15 ===
We want to imbue this book with the same degree of love and

care the Forever Pets we’ve described enjoyed throughout their

long lives. Through a journey across the world, featuring different

cultures and cuisines, we also aim to show how you, too, can strive

to have a Forever Pet. While this book has “dog” in the title, it’s

intended for both dogs and cats. Indeed, The Forever Dog Life is

about celebrating wholesome, nourishing food and creating a

nontoxic home environment that provides families and all their pets

an oasis for health and well-being.

The Forever Dog Life introduces the most nutrient-dense

Forever Foods that will boost your pets’ health, and it offers a

multitude of feeding techniques, DIY tricks, research highlights,

nutrition information, tools, and household and money-saving tips.

Then we dive into recipes, from treats and toppers to complete and

balanced meals your pet can enjoy daily. Many of these recipes

incorporate our Forever Foods. Food is medicine, and this book

will help you gain the confidence to do it right. But please note:

This isn’t a regular cookbook. In fact, this isn’t really a cookbook

at all (although most of the recipes are cookable, if you want).

These are recipes for life!

Good health is built on more than nutritious food, however.

Bored pets who lack sufficient exercise, social engagement, and

enriching activities can suffer mentally, physically, and

=== PAGE 16 ===
emotionally. For instance, studies show that keeping your dog

mentally engaged fights inflammation and benefits the immune

system. In addition, the more enrichment you provide your pet, the

more brain-derived neurotropic factor (BDNF) is produced, which

keeps brain cells healthy and stimulates new brain cell growth.

Throughout the book, we’ve sprinkled ideas and science to help

you keep your animals entertained so that every cell in their bodies

can flourish.

Seek Out Nature: There are now dozens of studies

confirming shinrin-yoku (“forest bathing”), or spending time

in nature or the woods, has numerous health benefits,

including:

Reduced blood pressure

Lower stress

Improved cardiovascular and metabolic health

=== PAGE 17 ===
Weight loss

Lower blood sugar levels

Improved concentration and memory

Lower rates of depression

Higher energy levels

Boosted immunity

We live in incredibly stressful and toxic homes, yards, cities,

and habitats, and these pressures hit our pets from all sides: with

nutritional deficiencies, obesity, indoor and outdoor exposures,

veterinary practices (desexing, annual vaccines, flea and tick

chemical application, and drugs that disrupt the microbiome), and

more. This book addresses all forms of stress, showing you how

you can reduce the damaging effects of these variables. As

guardians of animals that can’t choose for themselves, we owe it to

them to do all we can to help them live better and healthier. We’ll

show you how.

As you focus on food and the environment, the following LIFE

strategy will help to ensure exceptional health and longevity. An

animal’s immediate environment and the choices you make for

them are what ultimately have the biggest impact on their well-

being.

L: Lifestyle

(Pets need love, enrichment, exercise, and good, proactive

medical care.)

I: Ideal microbiome

(A robust ecosystem of intestinal microbes is key to building

immunity, fighting disease, and facilitating healthy metabolic

=== PAGE 18 ===
processes within the body.)

F: Food

(A diverse diet complete with fresh, whole, minimally

processed foods is vital to an animal’s longevity.)

E: Environment and Stress

(Our companions need “green” homes free of environmental

contaminants, toxic personal care products, and foods that

minimize stress on their body systems.)

The first part of this book focuses on what the body needs,

discussing the Forever Foods that maximize nutritional status, act

as preventive medicine, and offer the cells, tissues, bones, organs,

and more the opportunity to heal and rebalance. You can integrate

these foods at your own pace, starting with treats, toppers, broths,

stews, and teas, or jumping right into making nutritionally

complete recipes (raw, cooked, baked, or Crock-Pot). The second

half of the book shows you how to support your dog’s health from

the outside in: intentionally creating a safer and healthier

environment around your animal. Addressing your pets’ immediate

living area is critical for managing epigenetic risks and DNA

damage, which ultimately play into health and longevity or disease

and degeneration.

According to the longevity experts we interviewed, 20 percent

of health is genetic, and 80 percent is environmental. That means

the vast majority of your pet’s long-term health is within your

control. The Forever Dog Life will make it easier (and likely less

expensive) to do more to nourish our animals and keep pollutants

out of their bloodstreams. We’ll show you how to “swap up,”

exchanging a current lifestyle decision for a healthier one that

=== PAGE 19 ===
allows you to move up the scale of nutrition and health. Every bite

of fresher treats and foods means more consumption of health-

promoting, microbiome-protecting bioactive substances, and each

endocrine-disrupting household chemical cleaner that’s replaced

with a nontoxic DIY option reduces metabolic and environmental

stress on your furries. A healthy life is made up of making one

good decision at a time, over and over. Incorporating one, some, or

all these beneficial changes is a step toward doing all you can to

create a Forever Pet.

Your pet can enjoy a vibrant, lower-stress, wholesome life that

you did your very best to extend. With the tools in this book, you,

too, can raise a Forever Pet, meaning you have committed to

creating a healthier, happier life for your animals—intentionally,

with no regrets. Come into our kitchens and homes so that we can

show you how.

=== PAGE 20 ===
How to Have a “Blue Zone” Pet: The term “Blue Zone”

refers to geographic regions around the world where people

live significantly longer, healthier lives, compared to global

averages. Researchers have studied why these areas have

unusually high concentrations of people over one hundred and

have identified these characteristics: regular physical activity,

a Mediterranean-type diet, strong social bonds, and a low-

=== PAGE 21 ===
stress lifestyle. We’ll show you how your pet’s way of life can

check all four of those boxes.

When Sarah, our awesome book collaborator, and her

husband, Peter, picked up their first dog—a two-and-a-half-

year-old shih tzu/poodle mix—from a rural shelter near their

home, they just assumed he’d have hair. McGee was a mess of

gray curls in his online pictures, with only a single canine

extending up from his lower jaw as evidence that he was, in

fact, a dog and not a dirty mop. But when the shelter staff

walked him to their waiting room on adoption day, he was

bald as an egg. “He had some mats, so we had to shave him,”

the staff member said. “Sorry he looks like a rat.”

In his first month, McGee’s coat grew in wiry and coarse.

Soon, there was a patch of hair on his rear that was mottled,

darker, and drier than the surrounding hair. The couple

eliminated the kibble that his previous owner had been

serving him and swapped up to sardines, knowing that fish’s

DHA would help his coat. They mixed the fish with pumpkin

and avocado, understanding that their rich vitamin E content

was excellent for dry skin and coarse hair. Soon his hair grew

soft and shiny. The dark patch on his rear end faded and

blended into a soft, manageable, and healthy coat.

We’ve seen transformations like these over and over, and

every time it’s still so satisfying; dull, dry hair is replaced with

shiny, softer fur; bad breath and stinky poop diminish; and

clearer eyes and ears emerge when fresh food replaces fast

food. This is the power of good nutrition: it can heal or harm.

Ultimately, health starts in your Forever Kitchen with fresh,

=== PAGE 22 ===
unprocessed, nutritionally dense whole foods, a few herbs and

spices, some tools and utensils, and an eagerness to boost your

companion’s health and longevity. One bite at a time.

Sarah Durand McGuigan

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 23 ===
Part I

The Forever Kitchen

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 24 ===
Chapter 1

Feeding Your Forever Pet

What Does Your Forever Pet Need?

To decode the riddle of exactly what your pet needs to eat for a

lifetime of good health, we should first look to the past.

Dogs have evolved alongside humans for millennia, which has

influenced everything from their behavior to their gut microbiome.

Siberian archaeological records indicate there were critical shifts in

dog foraging and diets during the Holocene era, which began

around twelve thousand years ago. This transition contributed to

canines having much greater dietary diversity compared to their

ancestor wolves. During the Holocene era, dogs started to

scavenge, hunt small prey, eat marine and freshwater foods, and

consume human leftovers. These feeding patterns and choices

shaped their current nutrient requirements, demonstrating that dogs

have a long-standing primal need for meat, fish, foraged fruits and

vegetables, and the fresh foods that humans cook. These foods are

key to a pet’s longevity.

The Basics of Nutrition

=== PAGE 25 ===
What pets don’t need are refined carbohydrates. Even though

carbohydrates are a quick source of glucose (and glucose converts

to energy), studies show that dogs and cats don’t prefer them. In

fact, when given a choice of what to eat, they pick carbs last.

Yet many bags of dry pet food contain up to 50 percent

carbohydrates. This is bad news because carbs convert to starch,

then sugar. Sugar feeds inflammation, and inflammation kick-starts

a host of negative biologic processes. For example, puppies fed

high-carb dry food have a significantly higher risk for atopy (doggy

allergies) later in life. Thankfully, adding in as little as 20 percent

fresh food dramatically reduces these chances.

While dogs and cats don’t require added starch to be healthy,

they do need healthy sources of fiber to maintain a thriving

microbiome, and consumption of only protein and healthy fats are

inadequate for this purpose. Their gastrointestinal ecosystems need

fiber-dense roughage (aka the prebiotic fibers that constitute “good

carbs”) without the added glycemic index/sugar spike of

consuming refined, highly processed starch. The “good carbs/bad

carbs” discussion can be summed up by most nutritionists in one

statement: there’s a big metabolic difference between eating

broccoli and eating white bread. Paper after paper shows both dogs

and cats require appropriate amounts of healthy fiber from fresh,

minimally processed produce for healthy gut terrain, not to mention

fruits and veggies are the most abundant source of vital naturally

occurring antioxidants, phytonutrients, polyphenols, and bioactive

plant compounds.

Refined carbs are out, and meat, fish, and fresh, whole foods

are in. But how do you put that plan into action? The gist of it is

simple: start swapping up, replacing poor-quality, “feed-grade” big-

box store-bought treats and the unhealthy human food leftovers you

give your pup with nutritious homemade options. Instead of pizza

crusts, offer broccoli and mushroom stems. Rather than ultra-

=== PAGE 26 ===
processed treats from a sealed bag, reach for sardines. Small swaps

can equal big nutritional gains over time.

Veterinarians generally adhere to the “10 percent” rule,

meaning that no more than 10 percent of daily calories should

come from “extras,” including longevity-boosting fresher foods in

the form of treats, toppers, and mix-ins (nutrient-dense foods you

add to whatever they’re currently eating). Your healthy treat and

meal topper options are limited only by your imagination, and we

can’t wait to see what #foreverbowl creations you come up with!

Once you’ve improved the quality and nutritional value of your

treats and meal toppers (meaning all the “extras” have been cleaned

up), you may decide to make your first nutritionally balanced

homemade meal. Recipes for those start in chapter 4. Treats differ

from meals in that our complete and balanced recipes are

formulated to exceed the recommended daily allowances for all

required macronutrients, vitamins, and minerals. Treats in this book

provide antioxidants, polyphenols, and phytonutrients, but they

cannot be substituted for a complete and balanced diet. You’re

welcome to use the food recipes you make on lick mats, to fill

interactive toys, as toppers on your pet’s current diet, or to replace

a little or all of what you are currently feeding. Just realize you’ll

need to reduce the amount of old food you’re feeding as you

increase the amount of fresh, homemade food, to account for the

correct number of daily calories. Our advice has always been to

feed as much fresh food as you can afford to feed and make

changes at a pace that doesn’t cause stress to you or your animals.

=== PAGE 27 ===
Commercial Dog Food

Can you still feed your dog or cat commercial food? Of course! We

are not advocating that you must make every one of your

companion’s meals by hand. When choosing healthy pet foods, try

to keep the refined carbs to a minimum and aim for the bulk of

calories to come from protein and fat (allowing for 10 percent

wiggle room for healthy treats and toppers). If you do feed

commercial pet food, rotate brands and proteins often, and aim to

buy minimally processed (the least heat-adulterated) foods. The

more processed a commercial pet food is, the more unwanted

chemical by-products of high-heat processing will be present. Look

for dehydrated, freeze-dried, gently cooked, or raw (generally

found in the freezer section of your pet food retailer or online).

As you’re evaluating the most high-quality food to buy,

remember that the fewer bad carbs it contains, the better. In order

to determine the amount in your pet’s food, follow these simple

guidelines:

1. Look for the Guarantee Analysis on your dry food label.

2. Do a little math:

Protein + Fat + Fiber + Moisture + Ash (if not listed, use 6 percent) = X

100–X = PERCENT CARBS

Aim to find a dog food with less than 20 percent carbs (and ideally 10

percent)

Processing terms can be tricky, so organizations such as the

International Food Information Council have created classifications

(including NOVA) that indicate the degree of processing. While the

definitions can be subjective, this is what we mean:

=== PAGE 28 ===
Minimally processed: Fresh or frozen pet food with no or only

one thermal (heat) or pressure (high-pressure pasteurization)

processing step.

Processed: The previous category’s (minimally processed)

definition modified by an additional thermal (heat) process. This

includes gently cooked dog food diets and freeze-dried or

dehydrated diets made with ingredients that were previously

processed (not raw).

Ultra-processed: Fractioned, recombined foods with added

ingredients, meaning dry, canned, or manufactured using several

thermal or pressure processing steps for the final product.

Here’s a handy way to distinguish the least processed foods

from the most:

Stocking Your Forever Kitchen: Tools, Dishes, and

Utensils

=== PAGE 29 ===
A few essential tools and utensils will go a long way in making

food preparation and serving easy. Stock up on these items and

follow these tips as you build your Forever Kitchen.

Food Scale

=== PAGE 30 ===
A high-quality food scale can fit in the corner of your kitchen or in

a drawer and should cost you around $20. In our complete and

balanced recipes, we list measurements in ounces and grams

because that’s the standard for pet food cookbooks, so look for one

that reads as such. You should also make sure it has a tare function,

which means it will subtract the weight of the container you use for

measuring.

Speaking of containers: your food scale should have a weighing

surface large enough to hold a container or a removable bowl that

can hold wet or dry food. You may be making several servings of

food—and you may have a large dog with a big appetite—so

always consider your serving size needs.

Cutting Board

There are as many kinds of cutting boards as there are dog breeds,

but we like stone, natural hardwood (maple is the most popular and

the most bacteria-resistant!), glass, or formaldehyde-free bamboo

boards. Avoid plastic or melamine boards, as they contain

microplastics (from 14–71 million polyethylene and 79 million

polypropylene particles!) and chemicals (including formaldehyde)

that may lead to cell changes and kidney damage. Steer clear of

antibacterial boards, too. They may sound healthier, but they

contain a chemical called triclosan, which has been linked to liver,

thyroid, and inhalation toxicity.

Should you buy a different cutting board for your dog’s food?

Not necessarily. Just be sure to use one board exclusively for

cutting raw meat because of the risk of bacterial contamination.

=== PAGE 31 ===
Food and Water Bowls

Dog bowls are one of the dirtiest places in your entire house, and

the clear film that settles at the bottom is called biofilm, a slippery,

slimy brew of bacteria that can be transferred from your dog to

you. No matter which bowl you choose, make sure you’re washing

it after every meal. What type of bowl is best?

Plastic: No! Plastic bowls grow the largest number of pathogens of

any type of bowl. Plastics can also leach endocrine- and melanin-

disrupting chemicals that cause contact dermatitis, a condition that

leaves your animal’s muzzle red and irritated. For more on plastics, see

“Food Storage.”

Ceramic: Be careful! Ceramic bowls harbor colonies of the most

harmful bacteria, including salmonella, E. Coli, and MRSA. Ceramics

can also contain lead, so if you opt for ceramic, make sure it’s marked

as being food-safe and lead-free, and disinfect it daily. Replace when

you see fine lines and superficial cracks in the surface.

=== PAGE 32 ===
Stainless steel: Yes, though cheaper brands have been involved in

recalls due to heavy metal contamination. Be sure to buy high-quality

bowls (eighteen-gauge metal) from a trusted source.

Kitchen-safe glass: Yes. Durable, kitchen-friendly glass bowls, such

as Pyrex®, make great food and water bowls for animals and don’t

pose a breaking risk.

What about lick mats and food holders? Yes, but clean and replace

regularly. While silicone and rubber lick mats and food holders/treat

=== PAGE 33 ===
release toys are safe for the short time they are in use, they can retain

food odors and stains.

Washing and Disinfecting Bowls: Wash your bowl after

every meal. At least once a week, run your bowl through the

hot cycle in your dishwasher or spray or coat it with hydrogen

peroxide or white vinegar (do not mix the two), wait five

minutes, then wipe with a clean sponge.

Water Filters

=== PAGE 34 ===
From 2010–2017, around one hundred thousand cases of cancer in

the United States were linked to the chemicals (including arsenic,

uranium, and radium) found in tap water. To prevent you and your

animals from being harmed by chemicals in your water, first test

your water. While you can call your local water company and ask

for a water quality report for your area and a free test kit, these kits

only cover the basic contaminants like lead (and not many others).

The Environmental Working Group (EWG) has an extensive tap

water database on their site (indicating everything that’s been tested

in your local water) so we encourage you to visit them at

www.ewg.org/tapwater/.

After you know what’s in your water, you can buy the right

filter for it, including:

Carbon block filter: You will have to replace yours more often,

and they can be expensive, but they are the most effective at

removing harmful chemicals. They do not, however, remove

arsenic and perchlorate.

Granulated carbon filters: Typically less effective than carbon

filters, but less expensive.

Reverse osmosis filters: These are terrific at removing

contaminants like arsenic, fluoride, hexavalent chromium, nitrates,

and perchlorate, but they don’t remove endocrine disruptors or

volatile organic compounds (VOCs), and they also remove helpful

nutrients like iron, calcium, and magnesium.

Reduce Your Pet’s Cancer Risk: Cancer hits one in every

three to four dogs and is the leading cause of death in senior

dogs. The cancer scientists we’ve interviewed agree that

roughly 10–20 percent of cancers in pets can be attributed to

genetics, while 80–90 percent are due to exposures in the

=== PAGE 35 ===
environment, with risks increasing or decreasing depending

on the choices we make for them. These lifestyle decisions

occur daily and result in benefits or consequences over time.

If we can tackle one potential cancer exposure risk at a time,

systematically decontaminating our pets’ air, water, food, and

immediate living environment, we can dramatically reduce

our family’s environmental cancer risks.

Food Storage

Whether you’re storing toppers, treats, complete meals, powders,

or supplements, glass is the way to go. It harbors fewer pathogens

than other materials, doesn’t contain dangerous ingredients, and

doesn’t leach those toxins into food. While we like heating foods

the old-fashioned way, on the stovetop, if a microwave must be

used, glass storage containers are a must.

Avoid plastic containers because:

Plastics leach chemicals into your pet’s food, including bisphenol

A (BPA), which mimics hormones and can lead to cell changes

that may cause cancer. Even BPA-free plastics aren’t chemical-

free. They’re often made with bisphenol S (BPS), which can

disrupt cellular functioning, affect the nervous system, and—even

more than BPA—harm the reproductive system.

Many plastics contain per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS),

fluorine-based substances that have been linked to certain cancers,

low birth weight, immune disorders, and thyroid disease. These

are also known as “forever chemicals” because they don’t break

down in our bodies or in the environment.

=== PAGE 36 ===
Plastics contain phthalates, which disrupt the endocrine systems of

not only our pets, but also wildlife, causing testicular impairment,

genital deformations, low sperm counts, and infertility in species

tested, including polar bears, deer, whales, and otters.

Plastics are porous, meaning oils become trapped in them. Unless

they’re washed daily, which isn’t practical, the food stored inside

can be spoiled by rancid oils.

While rubber and silicone storage containers are certainly safer

than plastic, they do absorb food smells over time and can be hard

to clean. Again, choose glass.

=== PAGE 37 ===
Other Useful Kitchen Items

Kitchen shears Use these for cutting herbs and meat.

Mini whisk A smaller whisk may come in handy for recipes

with smaller portions.

=== PAGE 38 ===
Silicone baking

mats,

parchment

paper, and/or

baking sheets

For easy, nonstick cooking.

Pizza cutter A quick way to cut up batches of treats and

jerkies.

Micro-grater Easily add a touch of ginger, turmeric, or a small

amount of veggies to a bowl.

Food processor

or blender

We love both for quickly mincing vegetables and

herbs and pureeing some foods.

Slow cooker

(Crock-Pot)

Great for gently cooking complete and balanced

meals, making broths, or creating amazing home

scents.

Ice cube trays Terrific for making and storing training treats and

toppers.

Mortar and

pestle

Great for crushing up vitamin and mineral

supplements, which are used in some of our

complete and balanced recipes. You can also use

an electric coffee grinder or small blender.

Dehydrator Can convert everything that’s about to expire in

your refrigerator to shelf-stable on-the-go treats.

Unlike ovens, you can run them all day without

worrying—and they use less energy. At as little

as $40, many are affordable, too.

Stocking Your Forever Kitchen: Produce

=== PAGE 39 ===
When you’re shopping for produce to stock in your Forever

Kitchen, these are things you should look for and bear in mind.

Try to Choose Organic

Organic means that a product was grown or raised without the use

of chemical fertilizers, pesticides, or other toxins. Not only are

organic products free of many substances linked to health issues,

but some organic produce is more nutritious, including being

higher in polyphenols (powerful antiaging molecular compounds

that reduce oxidative stress on tissues and organs) as well as

bioactive compounds that fight cancer, promote heart health, boost

brainpower, and prevent diabetes.

Washing Organic Produce

Organic produce still carries the potential for bacterial

contamination, so you do need to wash it, but you don’t need to

scrub or peel it for your pets. In fact, organic farming promotes a

healthier, more diverse microbial environment in the soil, as

opposed to conventional farming, so a little bit of healthy soil

residue may actually be beneficial. Just be sure to dry your produce

thoroughly after washing to prevent mold growth (we like using a

salad spinner or spreading produce out on a paper towel).

=== PAGE 40 ===
How should you wash your produce? Here are two of our

favorite ways:

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 41 ===
Saltwater Produce Soak

While the FDA recommends you wash leafy vegetables with a diluted

bleach solution, we prefer a saltwater soak. Washing cabbage for twenty

minutes in a 10 percent saltwater solution (as opposed to vinegar or plain

water) is more effective at removing common pesticides, including

chlorpyrifos, DDT, cypermethrin, and chlorothalonil.

½ cup Himalayan or sea salt

5 cups filtered water

1. In a clean bowl, mix salt and filtered water together until the salt

dissolves.

2. Soak fruits and vegetables in the solution for twenty minutes.

3. Rinse clean and dry thoroughly.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 42 ===
Vegetable Wax Remover

A vinegar soak is the most effective way to remove the wax coatings on

produce, which are used to make apples, cucumbers, bell peppers,

eggplants, and more look shiny.

½ cup filtered water

½ cup vinegar (white or apple cider)

1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice

2 tablespoons salt

1. In a clean bowl, mix ingredients.

2. Soak produce in the mixture. Delicate greens and berries should only

soak for 2–3 minutes, while heartier produce like broccoli, cauliflower,

and produce with thick peels can soak for 20–30 minutes.

3. Rinse clean and dry thoroughly.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 43 ===
Food Myths, Misconceptions, and Concerns

The amount of misinformation floating around about what’s safe

for your pet—and what isn’t—is dizzying! We have some good

news: your pet is safer than you probably think. Use caution and

follow these tips.

Which Foods Are Considered Choking Hazards?

Almost all foods can be choking hazards to small kids and pets,

depending on how they’re served, and food items that are smaller

than your dog’s trachea pose a choking risk if accidently inhaled.

Use common sense, and if you worry something is too big for your

pet, chop it up or skip it. Follow these tips as well:

Only feed the edible parts of fruits and veggies.

Don’t feed your kids (two- or four-legged) any tough stems or

leaves of plants, pits, cores, or rinds.

Choose treat sizes and molds that are twice the diameter of your

dog’s paw.

Be careful with dogs that try to swallow everything whole.

Chop all foods into bite-sized pieces.

Which Foods Are Toxic to Pets?

=== PAGE 44 ===
The European Pet Food Industry Federation (FEDIAF) says to

avoid these foods entirely because they can cause illness—and

even death.

Chocolate: Contains theobromine, a chemical that acts as a diuretic,

heart stimulant, blood vessel dilator, and a smooth muscle relaxant.

Along with the caffeine in chocolate, dogs can’t metabolize

theobromine well.

Grapes (and raisins, sultanas, currants): These contain a substance

called tartaric acid, which may cause vomiting, thirst, diarrhea, and

kidney damage.

Macadamia nuts: Scientists don’t know what toxin—if any—is

poisonous to dogs, but their high fat content can lead to nausea.

Onions: Onions contain thiosulfate, which can cause Heinz body

anemia, a condition in which the red blood cells break down faster

than the body can replace them. This leads to weakness and lethargy.

The following foods are not toxic for your pet:

Avocados: The myth that avocados are toxic to pets is based on

one study of two malnourished South African dogs who ate the

stems and leaves of avocados. This study highlights why to keep

your pet away from plant stems and leaves, not avocado flesh.

(Your pet should also not eat stems and leaves from many plants,

including tomato plants and walnut trees.) Avocado pits and skins

are also a choking hazard, so don’t feed these parts.

=== PAGE 45 ===
Epine/Shutterstock, Inc.

Peaches, cherries, apricots, and other pitted fruits: These are

perfectly safe, just remove the pits and stems.

Nata_Alhontess/Shuttersto

ck, Inc.

Rosemary: Rosemary does not cause seizures. But if your pet is

epileptic, avoid feeding large quantities of rosemary essential oil

or extract (which contains the concentrated compound camphor

and can increase seizure risk in epileptic mammals).

=== PAGE 46 ===
Epine/Shutterstock, Inc.

English walnuts, almonds, pecans, and other nuts (except

macadamia nuts): No toxins identified. They can be a choking

hazard, however, so chop them into small pieces. The outer

casings of several nuts contain juglone, a compound that can cause

a variety of symptoms, so always remove hulls and shells.

Epine/Shutterstock, Inc.

Pork: There’s a rumor that you shouldn’t feed your pet pork

because it has a high fat content. However, pork has around one-

third the amount of fat of beef. Pork is an excellent source of

protein and amino acids and can be a perfect protein for pets

allergic to chicken or beef. If serving raw, the Centers for Disease

Control (CDC) recommend you should freeze pork for twenty

days at 5°F (-15°C) to kill any trichinella. Cooking to 145°F also

inactivates any potential parasites.

=== PAGE 47 ===
Bodor

Tividar/Shutterstock, Inc.

Salmon: Consuming raw salmon sourced from the Pacific

Northwest can (rarely) cause a parasitic condition in dogs called

“salmon poisoning.” The good news is freezing (-20°C for twenty-

four hours) or gently cooking removes this small risk.

Epine/Shutterstock, Inc.

Garlic: Since it’s part of the onion family, people often assume it’s

unsafe. But garlic contains only one-fifteenth the amount of

thiosulfate as onions and has been declared safe for pets in a

national report. It also contains allicin, a medicinal compound that

can help your dog’s cardiovascular system, which is why you see

garlic added to lots of commercial dry pet foods.

=== PAGE 48 ===
Sketch

Master/Shutterstock, Inc.

Mushrooms: All mushrooms that promote health in humans also

do so for pets, and we love feeding mushrooms for their medicinal

compounds. Cooking mushrooms makes them easier to digest and

enhances their health benefits (for instance, it inactivates agaritine

—a mycotoxin, or toxic mold, found in portobello mushrooms)

Net Vector/Shutterstock,

Inc.

I’ve Heard You Should Never Feed Your Pet Fresh

Food. Is That True?

No, and here’s why.

=== PAGE 49 ===
Many veterinary schools and teaching hospitals have

affiliations with large pet food companies that manufacture ultra-

processed foods. Because these companies don’t currently sell

fresh food diets, students are not taught about pet foods besides dry

and canned products. In fact, many vet students graduate

indoctrinated with the notion that pets should only be fed highly

refined, ultra-processed diets throughout life and that feeding any

other type of food could be dangerous.

The problem is: emerging science doesn’t back up this opinion,

nor does common sense. The entire animal kingdom needs a

variety of fresh foods for optimal health. And most pets never get

any.

Just look at the long-lived canines we described in the

introduction. Most of these animals never ate highly processed pet

food, and that did nothing to diminish their Forever Dog status.

Now to the other dirty little secret about why fresh food and

treats are superior. In the United States, all food is inspected. Food

that passes inspection is deemed approved for human consumption.

Food that fails inspection is deemed “feed grade,” meaning it’s

turned into animal feed, including pet food. “Feed grade”

ingredients, by definition, have more contaminants of every kind.

Garlic Guidelines: If you want to add some fresh garlic to

your pet’s meal routine, here are some suggested daily

amounts:

=== PAGE 50 ===
iStock.com/Laures

The National Research Council has set a historical safe intake

for cats to be 17 mg/kg of body weight.

Can I Change My Animal’s Food?

Absolutely. If you want to work toward having a Forever Pet,

incorporating a variety of nutrient-dense, fresher foods is a must.

If your companion has been eating the same brand and flavor of

food for a while, their microbiome (and in turn, their immune

system) will benefit from some nutritional diversity. Your goal is to

reduce your pet’s metabolic stress and inflammation, clear out

toxins, activate longevity pathways, and rebalance the microbiome.

Feeding a variety of whole, healthy meals and snacks will ensure

you can do that.

The pace and frequency of new food introductions, however, is

based on several factors, including your animal’s ability to adapt to

new foods and the food storage space in your kitchen. In order to

swap up in the best possible manner, offer new foods slowly, one

bite at a time, using the quality of your pet’s stool as a barometer of

=== PAGE 51 ===
when to introduce more new foods. If your animal’s poop loosens,

don’t introduce more new foods or continue to increase the amount

of new food or treats. Allow the gut time to adjust to changes, and

when the stool firms up again, proceed with more food

diversification. We’ll dive more into transitioning to a new food

here.

Can I Feed My Pet Table Scraps?

If diets primarily consisting of healthy leftovers have sustained

millions of dogs throughout history, chances are human food treats

and meals will work for your pet, too.

However, there is a difference between leftover steamed

broccoli and leftover French fries. Unwholesome leftovers result in

unhealthy bodies, and wholesome leftovers result in a more

diversified microbiome and improved overall health. In fact,

feeding healthy human leftovers and making at least 20 percent of a

puppy’s food intake a raw meat diet may contribute to puppies

having a much lower incidence of atopy (allergies) later in life.

Puppies who consume a nonprocessed (raw) meat-based diet have

also been found to have a significantly lower risk of inflammatory

bowel disease (IBD) later in life, compared to kibble-fed puppies.

Choose healthfully prepared meats, fruits, and veggies to share

with your animals, without sauces, sugar, or spicy condiments

added. Don’t share fried, charred, or spoiled food. Stick to sharing

the “good carbs” (low-glycemic, high-fiber veggies), and bypass

the refined carbs (breads, pasta, etc.). To prevent unwanted

begging, we also recommend not sharing food while at the table;

instead, give healthy human foods when training, or add them into

your animal’s bowl.

=== PAGE 52 ===
Pets Need Enrichment: Interactive toys (or, as we sometimes

call them, “tasty activities”) are designed to stimulate and

engage, both physically and mentally. Puzzle toys, lick mats,

stuffable chew toys, and DIY food games and snacks provide

healthy distraction (when needed), entertainment, boredom

relief, sensory stimulation, and enrichment. You can

customize the activity, toy, and treat to your animal’s

personality, needs, and dietary goals, and you can upcycle

your family’s healthy leftovers for your animals, in the

following ways:

Spoon into ice cube trays and freeze to use as meal toppers.

Load in an interactive/treat release toy and feed or freeze.

Smear on lick mats and freeze for a tasty distraction later on.

=== PAGE 53 ===
Mix a few tablespoons of leftovers with a little stock or broth

and make pupsicles or other frozen treats.

Are Fats Good or Bad for My Pet?

Many pet parents fear fat for a variety of reasons, and some fears

are justified. Reheated, oxidized, and rancid fats (the recycled

=== PAGE 54 ===
grease sprayed on many dry foods as a “palatant”) are horrible pet

food additives, flooding the body with advanced lipoxidation end

products (ALEs). ALEs are some of the most cellularly damaging

tagalongs of industrially produced pet food, contributing to

pancreatitis, nausea, GI issues, and early aging.

However, unrefined, unadulterated raw fats are healthy fuel for

the body, providing sustained energy exactly as nature intended.

These fats, including DHA and EPA, are the building blocks for

healthy cell membranes and cognitive well-being.

It’s important to note that dogs and cats require different types

of essential fatty acids to be added directly to their food, or they

risk deficiencies. For instance, cats need to eat arachidonic acid

(AA), an omega-6 fatty acid. Pets also can’t convert plant sources

of alpha-linolenic acid (ALA) efficiently enough to DHA or EPA to

meet their requirements, so they need to get it from foods like

sardines. Finally, pets must be given the omega-6 fatty acid linoleic

acid (LA), which is why you’ll see the addition of certain plant oils

in our complete and balanced recipes.

There are other types of healthy fats that provide health benefits

but don’t meet your animal’s EPA or DHA requirements (that’s

okay, they’re still terrific). We include some of these in our recipes:

Coconut oil: Solid at room temperature, coconut oil is nature’s

richest source of lauric acid, a medium-chain fatty acid that helps

fight yeast and raise HDL (good) cholesterol levels.

Black seed oil: Also called black cumin seed oil (but unrelated to

the cumin in your spice drawer), it has an impressive array of

health benefits thanks to its thymoquinone, a phytochemical with

powerful antioxidant qualities that can help alleviate

neurodegenerative diseases, reduce cognitive decline and brain

=== PAGE 55 ===
disorders, reduce pain and inflammation, and fight viruses and

cancer.

Olive oil: This heart-healthy monounsaturated fat contains oleic

acid, which reduces inflammation.

Finally, while fat provides twice the calories of carbs or protein,

fat is not the main reason so many pets are overweight. The

consumption of excessive starch (which the body stores as fat) is

the root cause of the obesity epidemic in companion animals. Dogs

and cats need healthy fats—not starchy, refined carbs—for

longevity fuel.

Can “Anti-Nutrients” Harm My Pet?

We can all agree that a plant-rich diet is good, but plants do

produce some compounds (including lectins, glucosinolates,

oxalates, phytates, saponins, and tannins) that may make other

nutrients less bioavailable. These compounds—called “anti-

nutrients”—are intended to protect plants from insects and

diseases. But if you’re feeding them to your pet in the hope they’ll

get nutrition from them, are you instead doing the opposite?

Probably not. Most nutritionists agree that the benefits of eating

plants containing anti-nutrients outweigh the risks of not eating

plants at all. Plants are where the bulk of our life-extending

polyphenols, medicinal phytochemicals, antioxidants, and

flavonoids come from. (Plus—let’s be honest—every food

ingredient, in isolation, has something “wrong” with it.) However,

if these plant compounds are consumed in large amounts, for

example, in vegan or some “grain-free” pet foods with a very high

=== PAGE 56 ===
starch/carb content (see here to calculate the amount of carbs in

your pet food), the chances of having anti-nutrient issues from

excessive plant material in the diet increases. For these reasons

(among others), we do not recommend feeding your pet high-

starch/carb or vegan pet foods.

Genetic or breed predispositions can also impair the body’s

ability to efficiently eliminate these compounds. If your animal has

a specific health condition where your vet has suggested avoiding

certain foods for certain reasons, there are plenty of alternatives

you can choose from in this book. Finally—in case you’re still

worried about anti-nutrients—know that the overall plant material

in our recipes is low, and that’s because it reflects pets’ ancestral

intake. You can also cook your pet’s food or try sprouting, both of

which inactivate or dramatically reduce many of these anti-

nutrients.

Your Pet’s Microbiome

Inside your companion’s digestive system lives a complex and

magnificent world, teeming with a life of its own. Made up of

bacteria, viruses, fungi, parasites, and other microscopic friends

and foes, the microbiome is central to your animal’s health. It helps

them digest food, metabolizes nutrients, is integrally involved in

immune defenses, detoxifies contaminants and pathogens, regulates

inflammatory pathways, produces and releases enzymes, balances

the hormonal system, produces key vitamins, including B12 and K,

and supplies chemicals that make essential brain and neurological

functions possible. Your pet’s gut health is also intimately linked to

chronic diseases that can shorten their life span.

Unhealthy exposures that can throw off the diverse, well-

balanced colonies of microbes inside your pet include household

=== PAGE 57 ===
and environmental chemicals, fertilizers, antibiotics and other

medications, stress, disease, and a monotonous, metabolically

stressful diet. Research shows that a raw diet—as opposed to one

composed of mostly heat-processed foods—promotes a more

balanced and diverse community of gut bacteria and healthier gut

functions, in addition to better digestion and fewer allergies later in

life. Additionally, dogs who are regularly fed nonprocessed meats,

organs, fish, eggs, raw bones, vegetables, and berries, are 22

percent less likely to develop issues such as chronic enteropathy

(CE) as opposed to dogs who eat processed pet food.

In case you’re still skeptical about the miraculous microbiome,

let’s look at Bobi. We submitted Bobi’s poop for microbiome

analysis, and one of the researchers said that Bobi has the most

diverse and robust collection of microorganisms they have ever

seen! Remember: Bobi never ate anything but freshly prepared

foods, and he had extensive daily exposure to microbe-rich soil.

Microbial ecologist Dr. Holly Ganz, who has spent her career

examining how food impacts dogs’ and cats’ microbiomes, has also

told us how shocking it is to look at poop under a microscope and

notice which pets have access to fresh foods, and which pets don’t.

Their microbiomes are vastly different, with the fresh food feces

far more microbially diverse.

The microbiome is an area that we’re passionate about, so the

recipes in this book contain specific ingredients that promote gut

health. We chose our five Forever Food categories—mushrooms,

sprouts and herbs, dandelions, eggs, and sardines and clean fish—

in part because they contain beneficial nutrients, compounds, and

prebiotic fibers that are all key players in cultivating a flourishing,

healthy microbiome.

=== PAGE 58 ===
Boost Your Bacteria: One of the most prevalent and

important members of your animal’s microbiome is the

Fusobacterium species, whose bacteria are bolstered by

feeding fresh, meat-based diets like the recipes in this book.

While antibiotics are often necessary, even one round

(including the antidiarrhea medicine metronidazole)

obliterates the good gut guys, including Fusobacteria. Even

when medications are discontinued, your animal’s gut may

never bounce back to normal. But don’t panic; dogs fed a

home-cooked diet show improved levels of Fusobacteria in

the gut.

Prebiotic Fiber

Prebiotics are plant fibers that feed gut bacteria. Yes, the microbes

in your animal’s gut are living beings that require food to survive.

Consuming prebiotic-rich foods is vital to a healthy gut, and

www.foreverdog.com has a downloadable PDF that lists all the

prebiotic-rich fresh fruits and veggies that make great training

treats and rewards.

Pets with sensitive GI tracts who are fed diets higher in fiber

have less gut inflammation; firmer, less runny poops; and

saccharolysis (the breakdown of sugar into energy). These are all

signs of a well-functioning microbiome.

Bolster Your Broccoli: We love sliced broccoli as a grab-and-

go treat because broccoli helps prevent cancer and type 2

=== PAGE 59 ===
diabetes, and protects the lining of the small intestine.

Allowing chopped broccoli to sit for ninety minutes before

feeding it also increases the activity of sulforaphane—a

phytochemical that may prevent and slow the growth of

cancerous tumors—by as much as 2.8 times!

Transitioning to Healthier Habits

Transitioning to a new way of feeding and treating your companion

is all about instituting healthy habits. As a first step, we recommend

revamping snacks (aka training treats, lures, or rewards). Treats

will no longer be unhealthy, high-carb, processed junk food.

Instead, healthy treats are used as intentional rewards, fed for a

dual purpose: saying “good job” and creating health. Starting in

chapter 3, we’ll provide many recipes for healthy treats, in addition

to the following page’s grab-and-go treat options that come directly

from Mother Nature. We put interactive food toys and food brain

games in the “treat” category, too, because the foods used to

engage in these boredom-busting enrichment activities aren’t

always nutritionally complete and balanced meals.

=== PAGE 60 ===
Once you’ve updated your pet’s snacking habits, you can move

along to revamping your animal’s meals. Remember, you don’t

have to transition to all homemade meals; you can swap up and

replace whatever your animal is currently eating with 10–75

percent homemade food. Complete and balanced homemade meals

are chock-full of fresh, whole foods, and soon, you may notice

health, food preferences, and energy levels change as their bodies

repair and improve themselves from the inside out.

Just remember that swapping up isn’t an all-or-nothing

approach. In fact, it’s an everything approach. The only rule to

mixing and matching all types of pet foods, in any/all amounts, is

to blend at a pace that doesn’t cause any gastrointestinal (GI) upset

for your animals. It’s perfectly safe to feed a mash-up of

homemade and commercially prepared diets, and raw and cooked

foods, just as we can eat a variety of cooked and raw foods in the

same meal without causing bodily harm. There’s not one single

research paper demonstrating any negative repercussions for pets

eating a variety of foods, so feel free to add raw toppers to

commercial pet foods, cooked toppers (or your leftover cooked

veggies) on raw meals, or lick mats and interactive toys smeared

and stuffed with every possible combination you can think of.

How to Freeze Meat: If you have concerns about potential

parasites in fresh meats from your grocery store, an easy thing

to remember is “Freeze for 3”: place all butcher shop

purchases in the freezer for three weeks prior to thawing and

preparing for your family (two- or four-legged).

=== PAGE 61 ===
Grab-and-Go Treats: Fresh Pharma from the

Fridge You Can Share Right Now

Also known as Core Longevity Toppers (or CLTs), these are bits of

raw or gently cooked fresh food you sprinkle on as toppers or chop

up and feed as raw food treats. Instead of whipping up something

from scratch, these CLTs may include leftovers, discarded bits and

pieces of whole foods, or extra healthy tidbits you have lying

around right now. Though they may seem small, they confer big

benefits. For example, a study of Scottish terriers showed that

adding bits of yellow, orange, and green leafy vegetables just three

times a week to their bowls was associated with a significant

decrease (more than 60 percent!) in the likelihood of developing

bladder cancer.

Remember, all treats and “extras” should comprise less than 10

percent of daily calories.

Antioxidant-Rich

Vitamin C–filled bell peppers

Capsanthin-filled red bell peppers

Anthocyanin-rich blueberries, blackberries, and raspberries

Beta-carotene-rich cantaloupe

Naringenin-filled cherry tomatoes

Punicalagin-loaded pomegranate seeds

Polyacetylene-loaded carrots

Apigenin-loaded peas

=== PAGE 62 ===
Sulforaphane-rich broccoli

Anti-Inflammatory

Bromelain-filled pineapple

Omega-3-dense sardines (except for dogs requiring a low-purine

diet)

Quercetin-rich cranberries

Cucurbitacin-rich cucumbers

Manganese-rich coconut meat (or dried, unsweetened coconut

chips)

Vitamin E–rich raw sunflower seeds (sprout them and other

microgreens for a chlorophyll-rich upgrade from grass!)

Magnesium-filled raw pumpkin seeds (feed seeds one at a time

for perfect-sized training treats, up to ¼ teaspoon for every ten

pounds of body weight, spread throughout the day)

Selenium-rich Brazil nuts (chop up one a day for you and your

big dog or share one with smaller dogs)

Folate-filled green beans

Fisetin-filled strawberries

Indole-3-carbinol-rich kale (or homemade kale chips)

Isothiocyanate-loaded cauliflower

Detox Delights

Apigenin-loaded celery

Anethole-filled fennel

=== PAGE 63 ===
Fucoidan-rich nori (and other seaweeds)

Betaine-filled beetroot (except for dogs with oxalate issues)

For Guts and Glory

Prebiotic-rich jicama, green bananas, sunchokes, asparagus,

pumpkin

Actinidin-rich kiwi

Pectin-rich apples

Papain-rich papaya

Consider Cooking: While these grab-and-go vegetables are

nutrient-dense raw, in some ways, they are better when

cooked:

Spinach: When spinach is exposed to heat, it releases its

calcium, making it easier for the body to absorb it. It also

reduces the oxalate load.

Natalya Levish/Shutterstock, Inc.

Asparagus: Heat breaks down asparagus’s tough cell walls,

making it easier for the body to absorb its vitamins B9, C,

and E.

=== PAGE 64 ===
mamita/Shutterstock, Inc.

Mushrooms: Cooking releases the antioxidant

ergothioneine, which helps protect against free radical

damage. Baking mushrooms for 10 minutes at 200°F has

also been shown to preserve the most flavonoids while

improving digestibility.

Artleka_Lucky/Shutterstock, Inc.

Tomatoes: Cooking increases the amount of bioavailable

lycopene by 50 percent, which can help prevent heart disease

and cancer. But it’s a trade-off, as cooking reduces tomatoes’

vitamin C content by 29 percent.

=== PAGE 65 ===
Olga Lobareva/Shutterstock, Inc.

Carrots: Carrots are rich in beta-carotene, which

metabolizes into vitamin A and supports the immune system.

Cooking increases their amount of beta-carotene.

Vector Tradition/Shutterstock, Inc.

Bell peppers: Like tomatoes, heat breaks down the plant’s

cell walls and makes absorption of certain antioxidants

easier. However—like tomatoes—it also reduces the vitamin

C content.

=== PAGE 66 ===
logaryphmic/Shutterstock, Inc.

Green beans: Cooking increases their antioxidant levels.

Nata_Alhontess/Shutterstock, Inc.

Broccoli, cauliflower, and Brussels sprouts: Cooking

activates an enzyme called myrosinase, which then turns on

the vegetables’ cancer-fighting phytochemicals.

bosotochka/ Shutterstock, Inc.

=== PAGE 67 ===
Transition Tips for Finicky Eaters

Some pets take to new foods right away, while others take more

time. We’ve found the following strategies can help finicky eaters

discover a new way of eating.

Be Consistent: Begin by choosing a similar protein and food/treat

consistency: If you currently feed beef-flavored canned food and

beef soft treats, make poached beef recipes (stews) to start.

Aromas Help: Heat homemade food, at least initially, to release

an enticing aroma that can lure pets to their bowls. Once they’re

eating their new diet, you can decide to moderate recipe cooking

times.

Sneak in New Treats: Break current treats into pea-sized pieces

and begin rotating in a new treat morsel every third or fourth bite.

Increase new treats until you use up the old ones, and don’t

repurchase your former treats unless they’re as high-quality as

what you can make at home.

Don’t Let Them Graze: If you currently replenish the food bowl

throughout the day (the all-you-can-eat buffet), pick up the bowl

when they’re finished.

Create an Eating Window: See “Timing Matters” for the benefits

of creating an eating window.

Count Calories: Identify the number of calories your pet needs

here, measure out those calories, in terms of the volume of food

you are feeding, or food you want to feed, and stick to that

amount. Overfeeding (keeping them full all the time) doesn’t

motivate your companion to try new foods.

Switch One Thing: Changing the time that you feed, the amount

that you feed, and what you feed all at once is too stressful.

=== PAGE 68 ===
Modify one variable at a time, so you can track your animal’s

response.

Keep Trying: Try previously snubbed foods over and over,

throughout your animal’s life. It took Karen’s dog, Homer, three

years to eat cucumbers. Just as our palates change and we learn to

love or crave food we didn’t like as kids, animals are open to

eating a varied diet, depending on what they need—and when.

Just remember: Slow down if you see any type of physiologic

stress (like loose poop) or behavioral stress (like refusal to eat by

nightfall). And don’t you stress. You have plenty of time to make

slow but consistent changes that result in big health gains over

time, so go at a pace that resonates with your animal’s body and

brain.

Remedies for GI Distress

If transitioning to healthier eating habits causes GI distress, first

slow down. You can also try these natural, science-backed

remedies.

Slippery Elm Powder: Made from the inner bark of the slippery elm,

a tree native to North America, slippery elm has been used by

Indigenous people for centuries to relieve diarrhea and GI distress.

Research backs this up, showing it’s effective at relieving

inflammatory bowel disease in humans. Slippery elm contains

mucilage, a substance that turns into jelly when it’s mixed with water

and then coats and soothes whatever it touches. Our recommended

dosage is ½ teaspoon for every ten pounds of body weight, mixed with

bland food, twice daily.

=== PAGE 69 ===
Foxyliam/Shutterstock, Inc.

Marshmallow Root Powder: Made from the roots of a perennial

flowering herb, this powder decreases inflammation, improves stool

consistency, and prevents stomach ulcers. Try ¼ teaspoon for every

fifteen pounds of body weight, mixed with bland food, twice daily.

=== PAGE 70 ===
Foxyliam/Shutterstock, Inc.

Pumpkin: Try a dollop of canned or steamed 100 percent pure

pumpkin puree (one teaspoon per ten pounds of body weight).

Pumpkin is rich in prebiotic fiber, which will help GI upset and loose

stools.

Qualit Design/Shutterstock, Inc.

Activated Charcoal: Feed one capsule for every twenty-five pounds

of weight.

=== PAGE 71 ===
Net Vector/Shutterstock, Inc.

The Poop Test: Your dog’s poop is a surefire way to see how

well they’re transitioning to a new food.

Your animal’s gut is doing great! It’s time to increase the

amount of new, fresh food by 5–10 percent each day.

Slow down and don’t add in more new food until the poop

firms up.

Your dog is experiencing significant digestive upset with

their new food. Add some pumpkin into their diet to firm up

the poops, then proceed slowly.

=== PAGE 72 ===
Timing Matters

When your dog eats is just as important as what they eat. Your

dog’s microbiome, hormones, digestive system, and brain

chemicals follow their circadian rhythm, so pay attention to when

your dog is awake and ready to chow down. Mice who eat within

an eight- to twelve-hour window have been shown to live longer

than mice who eat all day—even though they consume the same

amount of calories—so we advocate for targeted calorie

consumption within a set period of time.

By creating an “eating window” of six to eight hours for dogs

and eight to twelve hours for cats, you will maximize autophagy,

=== PAGE 73 ===
your animal’s cellular housecleaning and detoxification cycles

during the nonfeeding times. Aim to stop all feeding two hours

before bed, which allows the body time to switch from digestion

mode to cell repair mode. You can feed your pet one, two, or three

times a day; just do whatever is best for the family.

If your perfectly healthy dog doesn’t appear to be hungry,

let them skip a meal. Feed your animals when they show a desire

to eat, and be sure to give them the same amount of calories they

require a day (so you may be feeding fewer but bigger meals).

There is no biological reason a dog can’t fast for a bit; after all,

Bobi and Darcy occasionally skipped meals, and, clearly, this did

nothing to affect their Forever Dog status. A landmark study of

almost twenty-five thousand dogs also revealed that those fed once

a day are less likely to suffer from age-related conditions such as

cancer, cognitive impairment, dental issues, and kidney or urinary

issues.

=== PAGE 74 ===
OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 75 ===
Chapter 2

Forever Foods

This chapter introduces our favorite Forever Foods, picked

because they are packed with some of the most highly bioavailable

nutritional benefits available. You can mix these foods into

homemade meals, add as toppers, or feed as grab-and-go treats.

Forever Food: Medicinal Mushrooms

Medicinal mushrooms are powerful yet misunderstood. They

contain gut-nourishing prebiotic fibers, longevity-promoting

ingredients (including polyphenols, glutathione, polyamines, and

ergothioneine), and immune-boosting beta-glucans, making them a

miracle-working Forever Food that’s perfect for your pet.

Serving Suggestion: Add one teaspoon of cooked mushrooms per ten

pounds of body weight daily.

Mushrooms have been used as medicine for thousands of years

—from the Ancient Greeks to the Roman Empire to the first

century AD Moche people of Peru. Two thousand years ago,

Chinese experts even called them “divine herbs that energize chi

(Qi)” (or life force). Yet sometime in the Middle Ages, they got a

bad rap, probably because—as we all now know—not all species

=== PAGE 76 ===
are edible. Some wild mushrooms will kill you (and your pets) if

consumed.

We think that something that’s powerful enough to both cure

and kill demands some respect.

The reality is if a mushroom is safe and healthy for humans, it’s

safe and healthy for other animals, including pets. If it’s poisonous

to humans, it’s also poisonous to pets. When we talk about

mushrooms, we mean edible, highly nutritious “medicinal” or

“functional” mushrooms, a distinct group of safe fungi known for

their exceptional health benefits beyond their nutrient composition.

In addition to being nutritious culinary staples, medicinal

mushrooms contain potent compounds that provide specific health

benefits and may be turned into supplements regulated by the Food

and Drug Administration (FDA).

Medicinal mushrooms that help our bodies be more resistant to

physical, chemical, and biologic stress are called adaptogenic

mushrooms. Thankfully, many of the culinary mushrooms found at

the local grocery store or farmers’ market contain some of our

favorite adaptogenic compounds, and they are super versatile in

how they can be incorporated into your animal’s life, including

teas, broths, toppers, lick mat schmears/toy stuffers, ice cubes,

foods, and treats . . . Anything is possible with mushrooms!

Science proves again and again that mushrooms are

detoxifying, cell-protecting, immune-modulating, brain-building,

nutritious powerhouses that can benefit the whole body. In one

study, individuals who ate mushrooms daily had a lower risk of

premature death from all causes, no matter what their diets or

lifestyles were. Mushrooms contain polyamines, compounds that

increase autophagy, which is the cell’s ability to shed and recycle

its old parts. One of those polyamines is spermidine, which

improves cognition and protects the nervous system. Mushrooms

contain more spermidine than any other food. They’re also chock-

=== PAGE 77 ===
full of glutathione—a powerful internal antioxidant that protects

the cells, but that animals produce less of as they age—and

ergothioneine (ERGO), another antioxidant that increases anti-

inflammatory hormones and decreases oxidative stress. Both

glutathione and ERGO are nicknamed “longevity vitamins” in the

science world today.

Medicinal mushrooms can also fight viruses and harmful

bacteria, balance blood sugar, help prevent inflammation, and

promote a healthy gut microbiome. Mushrooms can lower the risk

of cancer by up to 45 percent (if you eat only two a day!), reduce

the risk of depression and anxiety, and fight chronic inflammation

(especially in the brain). This is key, since chronic inflammation

leads to cognitive decay, cardiovascular issues, and organ failure—

central factors in a shorter, less healthy life.

Make the mighty mushroom a central part of your pet’s Forever

Food intake!

Mushroom Feeding 101: Some medicinal mushrooms are

becoming so popular in certain markets that they’re marketed

as “super healthy gourmet mushrooms,” including shiitake,

turkey tail, maitake, reishi, shimeji, oyster, cordyceps, and

lion’s mane. In your pet’s meals, you can also use some of the

more common mushrooms found at your local grocery store

or farmers’ market, like portobello, white, or button

mushrooms. Most mushrooms can be eaten fresh, dried,

powdered, or as supplements, but we love to sauté them in

raw butter or coconut oil for a quick topper or make them into

a hearty broth or tea. Freeze mushroom broth for a tasty,

hydrating treat, or use it in homemade meal recipes.

=== PAGE 78 ===
If you can’t find fresh culinary mushrooms, look for dried

mushrooms or whole-food mushroom powders in Asian

markets, farmers’ markets, and supplement or herb retailers.

Dried mushrooms can be rehydrated in bone broth or herbal

tea prior to being added to recipes. Don’t let your dog forage

wild mushrooms in the backyard, and if they do ingest wild

mushrooms, take them to the emergency room immediately.

Try one variety at a time, or mix and match as a daily treat

or topper, following the dosage instruction.

=== PAGE 79 ===
Medicinal Mushrooms: Their Adaptogenic

Properties and Cooking Notes

These images illustrate the “ideal” medicinal mushrooms, but some

may be hard to source, so feel free to use common culinary

mushrooms like portobello, white button, porcini, and cremini.

=== PAGE 80 ===


=== PAGE 81 ===


=== PAGE 82 ===


=== PAGE 83 ===
Chaga, the Weird Mushroom: Chaga doesn’t look like a

mushroom at all. This weird parasitic fungus grows on trees

and resembles charcoal or bark. Known for its anticancer and

liver-healing benefits (it even decreases tumor growth in dogs

with bladder cancer), you can buy chaga chunks, tincture, or

powder and use it to make tea, or throw a chunk in your bone

broth pot.

=== PAGE 84 ===
A Mushroom Is a Mushroom Is a Mushroom: Button (or

white) mushrooms are the same thing as cremini mushrooms

(one is white, and one is brown). And creminis are the same

variety as portobellos. That’s right, they are all Agaricus

bisporus, and they are simply at different stages of maturing.

As buttons and creminis grow into portobellos, they lose

water, which makes the bigger variety more flavorful.

=== PAGE 85 ===
Mushroom Hacks

To boost the nutritional benefits of your mushrooms and save time

and money, follow these tips:

Increase Vitamin D Levels: Mushrooms are loaded with vitamin

D2 (ergocalciferol), a form of vitamin D that is as biologically

active as vitamin D3 (cholecalciferol) in dogs (but not cats). In

order to boost vitamin D levels, wash mushrooms, then place them

directly in the sun, upside down, with their gills exposed, for at

least fifteen minutes. This will boost your button mushroom’s

vitamin D by up to 15 percent, and a shiitake mushroom can

increase its vitamin D content by 1,150 times after eight hours.

Don’t Throw Out the Stems: They have two times the bioactive

fiber (which helps your dog’s digestion) and beta-glucans (which

balance the immune system, help regulate insulin, reduce

=== PAGE 86 ===
inflammation, and support the gastrointestinal system) as the caps.

Ask a vendor at your local farmers’ market if they have stems for

sale. Often they cut them off and will sell them to you for cheap.

Cook Your Mushrooms: All the mushroom experts we’ve

interviewed say that cooking mushrooms prior to feeding them is

the best way to deliver the most bioactive compounds, including

polyphenols and antioxidants, which increase with cooking. The

healthiest way to cook mushrooms is to poach them: chop to

desired size and add to a pan with enough broth, tea, or filtered

water to allow them to simmer in liquid. Cook until tender.

Finicky animals will prefer mushrooms sautéed in coconut oil or a

dab of raw butter.

Slice Faster: Use an egg slicer. This is especially helpful with

button mushrooms.

Forever Food: Eggs

Eggs are the most nutritious dog snack on earth. A powerful protein

that contains virtually all the essential amino acids, vitamins, and

minerals your pet needs, eggs also provide vital antioxidants and

=== PAGE 87 ===
double the amount of choline (per one hundred grams) as any other

food. Eggs are nature’s multivitamin!

Serving Suggestion: Feed ½ egg per ten pounds of body weight three

times per week.

Sometime, around the dawn of time, primitive people

discovered that if they removed fresh eggs from the nest, hens

would continue laying them. Records show that the ancient Indians

then domesticated jungle fowl in at least 3,200 BC, and the

Egyptians and Chinese began using eggs as food in 1,400 BC.

Dogs figured out eggs are a delicious, nutritious food long

before that. Like their wolf ancestors, when ancient,

undomesticated dogs hunted for food, they scarfed up birds and the

eggs in their nests. By medieval times, dogs were considered

companion animals, so their owners fed them scraps of meat, and

—when they were sick—more nutritionally complex food like

buttered eggs.

Eggs contain all ten essential amino acids dogs need for muscle

growth and regeneration—plus taurine, an amino acid cats need in

abundance because they can’t synthesize it from food. Eggs are

rich in antioxidants, especially lutein and zeaxanthin, which protect

the eyes from age-related eye conditions like cataracts. In fact, the

lutein and zeaxanthin found in eggs may be more bioavailable than

the same antioxidants in plant sources. Eggs are also a potent

source of choline, a nutrient crucial to the production of the

neurotransmitter acetylcholine in the brain, which aids brain

function and memory, and may help treat and even prevent “doggy

dementia.” Low choline levels are also associated with liver and

heart disease, and choline promotes DNA synthesis, fat

metabolism, muscle health, and cell structure. While most

=== PAGE 88 ===
commercial pet foods add supplemental choline, a tremendous

amount is still lost when that food is cooked, processed, or frozen.

Eggs are the ideal choline source!

Anatomy of an Egg: Both the egg yolk and egg white contain

three grams of protein each, though the yolks contain more

calories and all the choline that’s essential for healthy cell

structure, brain health, and neurotransmitter production.

Those squiggly white stringy things on egg yolks are

called chalazae, and they’re great to eat. These little protein

springs suspend the yolk inside the shell, and the fresher the

egg, the more prominent the chalazae. Don’t freak out if you

spot specks of blood inside an egg. The blood comes from

tiny vessels in the yolk, and it is perfectly okay to consume.

=== PAGE 89 ===
Eggs Win the Protein Race: There are a few ways to

measure the bioavailability of a protein. These include:

Biological Value: A percentage measure of how well

the body can absorb protein. A protein with 100

percent biological value means that every single

=== PAGE 90 ===
amino acid that makes up the protein is present in a

way the body can metabolize it. If the percentage is

lower, the protein may lack essential amino acids the

body needs.

Protein-Digestibility Amino Acid Score

(PDCAAS): A measure of how well a protein can

meet the body’s amino acid needs. Animal proteins

score high, while plant proteins come in a bit lower.

Compared to meat from chicken, beef, and fish, eggs win!

For maximum nutrition, try to choose pasture-raised eggs.

Happy, well-nourished chickens that spend time outside produce

eggs that may show a hundredfold increase in carotenoids,

including beta-carotene and lutein, and higher levels of omega-3

fatty acids and vitamin E. Feed your dog eggs following the

serving suggestion here, as a topper, treat, or a part of their

complete and balanced meals. Their brains, bones, muscles, organs,

and taste buds will thank you.

=== PAGE 91 ===
To Cook or Not to Cook?

Wild dogs throughout history consumed eggs raw. We serve them

that way most of the time, too, because raw eggs contain between

20–33 percent more omega-3s, choline, vitamin D, DHA, biotin,

and zinc than cooked varieties. Cooking has also been found to

reduce the vitamin A concentration in eggs by around 17–20

percent and the number of some antioxidants by 6–18 percent.

A lot of people believe raw eggs should be avoided because of

salmonella, which may cause food poisoning in humans. That’s not

a concern for dogs; salmonella is a natural inhabitant of their GI

tracts. Others worry about the fact that egg whites contain avidin, a

protein that binds with vitamin B7 (biotin) and may prevent its

absorption. The good news is that eggs contain plenty of biotin, so

any that’s lost because of avidin is replaced almost immediately.

=== PAGE 92 ===
If you do want to cook your eggs, aim for shorter cooking

times. We like soft boiling because the water, eggshell, and egg

white protect the yolk, while the egg white gets just enough heat to

remove B7-destroying avidin. Poaching also preserves over 80

percent of the vitamin D found in eggs (as compared to losing 61

percent when baked for forty minutes).

=== PAGE 93 ===
OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 94 ===
Eggshell Calcium Powder

=== PAGE 95 ===
Eggshells are rich in calcium carbonate—about 800 milligrams!—and the

slippery membrane that lines the inside of the shell is loaded with collagen,

elastin, protein, hyaluronic acid, glucosamine, and chondroitin, which

provide fantastic joint support. Supplementing with eggshell membranes

has even been shown to reduce joint pain by 72.5 percent.

Add this easy-to-make calcium powder to your dog’s fresh, homemade

food that calls for eggshell powder. (It’s not necessary to add calcium to

commercial pet food that already contains calcium.)

1. Preheat oven to 300°F.

2. Rinse eggshells under cold water.

3. Place eggshells in oven-safe cookware.

4. Cook 5–7 minutes or until dry.

5. Once cool, grind in a blender, food processor, or coffee grinder until

you have a fine powder.

6. Store in airtight container in a dry, cool place for up to two months (we

like the freezer).

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 96 ===
Storing Eggs

Unless you keep chickens or know exactly where your eggs came

from, refrigerate your eggs. The USDA requires American eggs to

be washed and/or sanitized, which removes the natural coating that

protects them from infection. This is why American eggs must be

refrigerated. You can store raw eggs from three to five weeks, and

hard-boiled ones will keep in the refrigerator for a week.

In addition, you can freeze your cooked eggs for up to one year.

Just don’t wrap them directly in plastic wrap—it can leach

endocrine-disrupting chemicals into food. Raw eggs can be frozen

whole for a month, and we love cracking them into muffin tins,

then freezing them for future use.

Freshness Tests: Eggshells have up to seventeen thousand

tiny pores, and over time they absorb air. The older the egg,

the more buoyant it will be in water, and fresh eggs will sink

to the bottom of a glass. Fresh eggs also have cloudy whites,

whereas older eggs have clear whites. Always rely on the sniff

test for freshness; if a freshly cracked egg smells rotten, it is,

so throw it out.

=== PAGE 97 ===
Pastured Yolk versus Factory-Farmed Yolk: The difference

between pasture-raised eggs and factory farm eggs is written

all over the yolk.

=== PAGE 98 ===
Forever Food: Sardines (and Other Small Fish)

Sardines are small fish that pack a powerful protein punch. Rich

with cancer-fighting omega-3s and vitamins D and B12, as well as

the longevity-boosting, heart-happy molecule coenzyme Q10

(CoQ10), sardines are awesome additions to any bowl.

=== PAGE 99 ===
Serving Suggestions: Feed one fresh sardine (they’re bigger) or two

canned sardines for every twenty pounds of weight, two or three times

per week.

There’s a lot we can learn from poop. Five-thousand-year-old

dog feces discovered in Slovenia was determined to be full of fish

and three-hundred-year-old dog poop from Alaska’s permafrost

proved that sled dogs were fed chinook, sockeye, and coho salmon.

In both cases, these fish-filled meals were consistent with the diet

of humans at the time. Clearly, dogs have not just eaten fish for

millennia, but they’ve shared it with their human companions.

Our animals’ bodies need fish, and one type—the sardine—is

among our favorite Forever Foods.

Sardines get their name from Sardinia, the Italian “Blue Zone”

island that includes the highest proportion of men over the age of

one hundred in the world. The name fits them to a T because these

little fish hold the secret to longevity—for humans and pets. They

are one of the top sources of omega-3 fatty acids DHA and EPA,

both of which decrease inflammation, prevent and fight cancer, and

treat skin allergies, coat problems, dry eyes, valve disorders of the

heart, and osteoarthritis in dogs and cats. Increasing DHA and EPA

intake can prevent DNA damage in heart cells, and healthy,

undamaged cells are one of the hallmarks of longevity. DHA also

improves cognitive performance in aging dogs and, in cats, reduces

inflammation markers and protects the kidneys. Sardines are also

one of earth’s richest sources of coenzyme Q10, an antioxidant that

aids mitochondria (for energy production) and can slow the

progression of heart disease. One recent study demonstrates that

CoQ10 increases life span, and another shows that humans who

take CoQ10 not only live longer, but live better, with fewer days in

the hospital.

=== PAGE 100 ===
Finally, our carnivorous companions need protein for their

muscles, connective tissue, skin, hair, joints, and nails, and sardines

provide a whopping four grams of protein per sardine. This makes

them excellent additions for animals eating dry food, aging animals

that are losing muscle mass, and athletic pets.

=== PAGE 101 ===
Try Other Small Fish: While we love sardines, many types

of small fish and shellfish confer similar health benefits in

terms of DHA, EPA, and taurine. We often call these “clean

fish” because of their low toxic load. Try unbrined anchovies

(no added salt), smelt, herring, minnows, mussels, shrimp, and

more. A study discovered that people who ate fish at least

twice a week (as opposed to never in the past two years)

reduced their risk of death from any cause by 42 percent!

What’s good for people is good for pets, so feed your furry

friend fish.

Sardines vs. Fish Oil Supplements: While there are benefits

to supplementing with fish oil, feeding sardines is superior for

its cardiovascular benefits. Fish oil supplements may not as

effectively prevent cardiovascular issues, including strokes,

heart disease, and arrythmia, and many fish oil supplements

are processed using solvents and high heat, which can oxidize

their fatty acids and create harmful by-products.

Fresh or Canned?

We recommend using fresh sardines if you can find them.

However, both fresh and canned sardines offer health benefits, as

long as the canned variety are packed in water (as opposed to salt

or brine). Here are a few additional differences:

If you choose canned, look for BPA-free cans (BPA is added to

cans to prevent corroding, but it can act as an endocrine disruptor).

Always rinse the sardines to remove excess salt. Finally, canned

=== PAGE 102 ===
sardine bones are soft and bendable, so they are not considered a

choking hazard for most dogs. However, if you’re cooking up fresh

sardines or have concerns about bones, mash them with a fork and

remove bones prior to serving.

Toxins and Sustainability

Large fish like tuna and swordfish are often contaminated with

heavy metal toxins, including mercury. Sardines and other small,

clean fish don’t live long enough to accumulate the environmental

burden of larger fish. For example, sardines dine on plankton,

which makes their mercury content the lowest of any fish. This is

good news for your dog’s cardiovascular and nervous systems, GI

tract, and kidneys, which high levels of mercury can damage. Try

to buy ethically caught seafood and support seafood companies and

=== PAGE 103 ===
brands with third-party sustainability certification (such as the

Marine Stewardship Council).

Forever Food: Dandelions

The difference between a weed and a flower is perspective, and we

think dandelions are the greatest flowers on earth! They’re full of

prebiotic fiber that’s good for the gut, as well as polyphenols that

cleanse the liver, keep the bloodstream healthy, prevent

inflammation, and help manage chronic diseases like diabetes.

Dandelions are also a powerful topical agent for painful wounds or

dry, cracked paws.

Serving Suggestions:

Dried root, leaves, and flowers: ¼ teaspoon for every ten pounds

Fresh root, leaves, and flowers: ½ teaspoon for every ten pounds

Serve twice daily over food.

For as long as dogs have roamed through fields and meadows,

they’ve eaten dandelions. Once native only to Europe and Asia,

some historians speculate that the fluffy, gray seeds that make up

Taraxacum officinale came to America on the first explorers’ ships.

Soon, settlers began to grow them as food and use them in

medicine.

Dogs have known about dandelions’ golden goodness all along.

As they’ve munched bright yellow flowers, they’ve received a

healthy dose of lecithin (for memory, immune support, and cellular

health), polyphenols (which prevent inflammation), and

antioxidants (to protect their cells). They’ve enjoyed the hearty

leaves, which are jam-packed with vitamins C and K and the all-

important electrolyte potassium (for muscles, nerves, and fluid

=== PAGE 104 ===
balance). They also protect the liver by stimulating bile production

and increasing circulation. The roots are fantastic, too; they can

obliterate both colon and gastric cancer cells—in as little as forty-

eight hours.

One of dandelion’s most important nutritional functions,

though, is its role in supporting the microbiome. One of the

bacterial species that’s terrific for dogs and cats is A. muciniphila,

which protects the lining of the gut and, in turn, prevents diarrhea

and irritable bowel syndrome and may combat obesity. Bacteria

need to eat, and A. muciniphila loves to feast on

fructooligosaccharides and inulin, two prebiotics dandelions

contain in abundance.

The Delightful, Delicious, and Nutritious

Dandelion

All parts of the dandelion are edible. Let your dog loose in a

dandelion-filled spring lawn—as long as it’s free of pesticides and

other lawn chemicals—or buy dandelion greens from your grocery

store or farmers’ market. Rinse and dry them, then sauté, feed raw,

or cook them in a complete and balanced meal your dog will love.

According to nutritionists, dandelions are one of the top five

most nutritious plants in the world. Compared to broccoli, spinach,

and carrots—the top three vegetable ingredients in commercial pet

food—dandelions have more vitamins E, K, B1, B6, choline,

calcium, and iron. And they’re often free, as they grow in many

parts of the world.

=== PAGE 105 ===
Dandelions for Topical Treatments: Dandelions are

powerful if used topically. They are emollient (for soothing

the skin), anodyne (for relieving pain), and vulnerary (for

healing wounds). The flowers make excellent salves and oils

for treating dry, cracked paws and hot spots, cleaning ears,

and more. Turn to here for healing oil and salve recipes.

=== PAGE 106 ===
Flowers

=== PAGE 107 ===
Benefits Rich in antioxidants and antimicrobial properties.

Also a powerful anti-inflammatory.

Harvesting Pick them when they’re flowering, not when they

are fluffy and seeding.

Cooking and

Feeding

Blanch them in hot water for one minute to

remove the bitter taste.

Storing Wash and dry thoroughly and store them in the

refrigerator. Store in the freezer in an airtight

container for 2–3 months, or dehydrate and store

them in a cool, dry place for up to 3 months.

Leaves

Benefits Rich in vitamins and minerals, act as a diuretic,

boost digestion

Harvesting Pick the leaves before the flowers bloom. After

flowering, the leaves may be too bitter.

Cooking and

Feeding

Blanch them in hot water for one minute to

remove the bitter taste. Can be fed fresh—we

love to mince them and use them as a topper.

Storing Rinse what you pick and allow it to dry, then

freeze or dehydrate. If you plan to eat the leaves

within 2–3 days, store them in the refrigerator in

a sealed container.

Roots

=== PAGE 108 ===
Benefits Good for the stomach and liver. Also a powerful

diuretic.

Harvesting Wait until fall to harvest them.

Cooking and

Feeding

Wash and boil them for tea. Or boil until tender

and feed them whole (or chopped).

Storing Wash and store them in the refrigerator, freeze

them in a sealed container, or dehydrate them.

Use within 3 months.

Forever Foods: Sprouts and Herbs

=== PAGE 109 ===
Crunchy, nutrient-dense, and packed with gut-friendly goodness,

sprouts are tiny veggies that make a big impact. The same goes for

herbs; even just a sprinkle can add major nutritional benefits to

your pet’s diet. You can cultivate herbs and sprouts if you live in a

closet-sized city apartment, or if you have acres of fertile soil to

your name. Sprouts and herbs are versatile, delicious, and healing

from the inside out. You’ll see sprouts and herbs in many of our

=== PAGE 110 ===
recipes, but thanks to their tiny size and big health benefits, they

can be easily added to any meal, snack, or lick mat.

Serving Suggestions: Feed a teaspoon of chopped sprouts per twenty

pounds of your dog’s weight, ½ teaspoon for cats, per day.

Sprouts

Sprouts are cancer and chronic disease fighting cruciferous

vegetables that are richer in vitamins, minerals, fiber, and

phytochemicals than their grown-up versions. For example,

compared to broccoli, broccoli sprouts contain fifty to one hundred

times the amount of sulforaphane. Germinating sprouts also

increases vitamins A precursors, B, C, and E by 20 percent to 9,000

percent, and eating a small portion of sprouts daily reduces

inflammation—a major cause of chronic illness—in less than two

months.

=== PAGE 111 ===
Benefits Contains fiber, vitamin C, glucoraphanin,

and sulforaphane

Fights cancer, reduces inflammation, and

detoxifies the body from carcinogens, heavy

metals, Maillard reaction products

(unwanted by-products in most pet food

from high heat processing), and mycotoxins

Notes A single dose of broccoli sprouts given to

dogs increased the amount of sulforaphane

in their bloodstream, which helps their

white blood cells fight cancer growth.

=== PAGE 112 ===
Benefits Full of beta-carotene, an antioxidant

Notes Slightly peppery, so finicky dogs may not

love them

Arugula is sold as microgreens, not sprouts

(see here for more information on

microgreens).

=== PAGE 113 ===
Benefits Contains choline, chlorophyll, amino acids,

and polyphenols

Promotes gut health, reduces inflammation,

and is antibacterial

Notes Basil is sold as microgreens, not sprouts

(see here for more on microgreens).

=== PAGE 114 ===
Benefits Contains chlorophyll, vitamin E, selenium,

zinc, and manganese

Promotes eye health and reduces age-related

diseases

Notes Dogs love the nutty flavor.

=== PAGE 115 ===
Benefits Full of anthocyanins, folate, vitamins C and

E, and the amino acid L-glutamine

Prevents cancer, promotes eye health,

reduces inflammation in the GI tract

Notes If your dog is not accustomed to eating

cabbage, start with a small, cooked portion.

Then slowly increase the amount as their

gut terrain adjusts, eventually cooking it

less until their body accepts raw cabbage

without the gassy side effects.

=== PAGE 116 ===
Benefits Contains vitamin C, B vitamins, folate

Promotes cardiovascular health, protects

against carcinogens

Notes Slightly peppery, so finicky dogs may not

love them

=== PAGE 117 ===
Benefits Contains the antioxidants beta-carotene,

zeaxanthin, and lutein

Declared by the CDC as a “Powerhouse

Veggie” most strongly associated with

reduced chronic disease

Notes 100 percent nutrient-dense!

Watercress is sold as microgreens, not

sprouts (see here for more information on

microgreens).

=== PAGE 118 ===
Benefits Full of phytochemicals and the antioxidant

resveratrol (one hundred times more than

red wine!)

Anti-inflammatory and anticancer

Notes Buy shelled, whole, raw organic Spanish

peanuts for sprouting. Sprouting

dramatically reduces the fat content.

Excellent for training treats.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 119 ===
How to Grow Sprouts

=== PAGE 120 ===
What You’ll Need

Sprouting seeds of your choice

Measuring spoons

2-quart glass jar

Optional: sanitizing agent (apple cider vinegar)

Cheesecloth and rubber band or sprouting lid with screen

1. Add 1–7 tablespoons of sprouting seeds (every tablespoon of seeds is

approximately 1 cup of sprouts) to glass jar.

2. Fill the jar with filtered water, covering the seeds, plus 1 inch.

3. Optional: Add sanitizing agent (1 tablespoon apple cider vinegar). Let

sit for 10 minutes, then rinse very well with fresh filtered water. (We

rinse up to 7 times.)

4. If you sanitized your seeds, add filtered water again, covering the

seeds plus 1 inch.

5. Soak seeds for 8 hours or overnight.

6. Drain water from the jar, then add fresh filtered water through the lid

and swirl the seeds to rinse them. Drain the water again and rest the jar

at an angle, so any remaining water can evaporate.

7. Rinse and drain the seeds at least twice a day for 3–5 days.

8. When your seeds have sprouted and are an inch or so in length (usually

the third or fourth day), place the jar on a sunny windowsill. Watch the

sprouts turn green!

9. While sprouts are still in the jar, rinse them to remove the seed hulls,

then drain them thoroughly.

10. Refrigerate in jar and use within 5 days.

11. Optional: Chop up sprouts prior to feeding. This triggers an enzymatic

reaction that results in the production of more of the anticancer

compound sulforaphane!

=== PAGE 121 ===
OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 122 ===
Sanitizing Sprouts: All seeds and peanuts are prone to mold

contamination, so mycotoxins can be a concern when you’re

growing sprouts. However, sanitizing seeds with apple cider

vinegar prior to sprouting has been shown to significantly

reduce fungal growth (without affecting quality).

=== PAGE 123 ===
Sprouts and AGEs

While studies show that the sulforaphanes in sprouts—especially

broccoli sprouts—are highly effective at removing the heavy

metals and mycotoxins that are found in abundance in processed

dog food, perhaps their most significant job is that they can remove

more AGEs than any other food.

AGE stands for “advanced glycation end products,” and they

are the result of chemical reactions that occur both in the body and

during cooking, whenever sugar binds with protein in a warm

environment (a process called glycation). AGEs are big and

unwieldy and accumulate in tissues, eventually creating structural

changes that impair healthy body functions. AGE consumption is

linked to chronic inflammation; oxidative stress; slow tissue repair;

kidney, heart, and pancreas damage; and cognitive impairment.

Glycation is abundant during pet food processing, and as

cooking temperatures increase, the number of AGEs created in

food products skyrockets. Canned and kibble pet food have the

highest number of AGEs, and raw pet foods have the least, because

no heating occurs during manufacturing. One research group found

AGE consumption to be 122 times higher in a dog’s daily diet,

compared to average human AGE intake.

To reduce the AGEs in your pet’s diet, stay away from ultra-

processed pet food and try cooking homemade diets at lower

temperatures (slow cookers/Crock-Pots are great for keeping AGE

levels low) and the shortest duration of time you can. In addition,

incorporating broccoli sprouts into your pet’s meals can protect

them against the damaging effects of AGEs. The sulforaphanes in

sprouts activate enzymes that shield the cells from AGEs, so add a

pinch of these little gems to every bowl of food, regardless of what

type of food you’re feeding.

=== PAGE 124 ===
Microgreens versus Sprouts

Though they’re often confused, there’s a difference between

microgreens and sprouts. Sprouts are seeds that have

germinated in water, and they will eventually become a full-

fledged plant if you let them grow. Microgreens are the first

leaves that show up on a plant, and they are grown in soil, not

water. While sprouts sprout in a few days, microgreens take

up to a week or more.

=== PAGE 125 ===
Herbs and Spices

The first recorded use of herbs for healing was in 3,000 BC by the

Egyptians and Chinese, but we know that Indigenous cultures used

herbs in healing rituals long before that. Dogs were right there, too;

for as long as they’ve snacked on outdoor plants (read: forever),

they’ve been gobbling up herbs for good health.

=== PAGE 126 ===
Learning what herbs and spices your animals like, love, and

loathe is also a fun way to know their food preferences. And

remember, taste preferences change over time. Just like people,

some animals enjoy cilantro, and some hate it. Look for organically

grown herbs, and always check the expiration dates. Then add a

“whisper” (the tiniest micro-pinch or dash) of a new herb to a

meatball or a smear of plain yogurt, ricotta, or cottage cheese on a

lick mat and discover how excited or annoyed your animals are

about tasting a new herb. You’ll not only be supercharging your

Forever Food recipe’s flavor, you’ll also be giving your best friend

boundless health-boosting benefits. (Just don’t feed chives or

nutmeg—see below.)

Serving Suggestions: If you choose dried herbs, use one shake for every

ten pounds of weight, per day. For fresh herbs, use ¼ teaspoon per

twenty pounds of weight, per day.

Benefits of Blending: Mixing herbs together is good for the

gut. Adding anywhere from ⅛ teaspoon to 1½ teaspoons of a

variety of herbs and spices to your diet has been shown to

increase gut bacteria diversity—especially the bacterial strain

Ruminococcaceae, a “good” bacterium that aids digestion,

particularly in the colon.

Avoid These Herbs

Chives: Though they’re commonly believed to be a part of the

onion family, they’re only close cousins. However—like leeks

and onions—they contain a compound called n-propyl disulfide

that can cause a breakdown of red blood cells and lead to

anemia.

=== PAGE 127 ===
Nutmeg: Nutmeg contains a compound called myristicin, which

can cause GI upset.

Freezing Herbs: Too many herbs and not enough time to dry

them? Try freezing.

Remove the thick stems from your herbs.

Place leaves flat on parchment paper, freeze them, then transfer

to a silicone storage bag and store in the freezer for up to a year.

Or

Remove thick stems from your herbs.

Finely chop herbs with a knife, or, if you have a lot of herbs, use

a food processor.

Pack chopped herbs into an ice cube tray, adding olive oil, black

cumin seed oil, filtered water, or broth to make removal easier.

Herbs for Health

=== PAGE 128 ===
Recipes throughout this book will feature herbs as ingredients, but

feel free to supercharge any meal with a sprinkling of these herbs.

Note: while essential oils are extracted from many herbs, essential

oil extracts are much more potent than fresh or dried herbs and

should not be used as a replacement.

Curly Parsley

Contains myricetin, an antioxidant that slows the growth of breast

cancer cells

Contains a flavonoid called apigenin that also suppresses the growth of

breast cancer cells

A particularly rich source of vitamin K, which is essential for bone and

blood health

Contains polyacetylene, which reduces the carcinogenic effects of

aflatoxins, a mold by-product often found in pet food

Turmeric

Its active ingredient, curcumin, suppresses the release of cytokines

(substances released by immune cells), which helps kill cancer stem

cells and has anti-inflammatory effects on dogs with arthritis.

Antioxidant, blocks the action of free radicals

May increase levels of BDNF, a protein associated with reduced rates

of brain disorders

Rosemary

Contains a polyphenol called carnosic acid that protects the brain from

damage due to free radicals

Contains carnosic acid and another polyphenol, rosmarinic acid, which

may suppress signaling molecules that cause cancer

Increases glutathione levels in dogs and has a positive effect on

pancreatic function

=== PAGE 129 ===
Cilantro

Helps the body flush out sodium, which regulates blood pressure

Helps control blood sugar by promoting the enzyme activity that

eliminates sugar from the blood

Helps eliminate mercury and lead from the body

Cumin

Improves digestion by increasing the activity of the enzymes amylase,

protease, lipase, and phytase

Antimicrobial against gram positive and gram negative bacteria and

yeast

Decreases insulin levels, which helps control diabetes

Cinnamon

Inhibits the formation of AGEs

Contains a compound called cinnamaldehyde (which gives it flavor

and odor) that builds collagen and helps joints

Contains antioxidants that protect the cardiovascular system by

reducing oxidative stress

Contains polyphenols that prevent neurodegenerative diseases like

doggy dementia

Cloves (grind, do not feed whole)

Inhibits the formation of AGEs

Rich in manganese, which helps joints and ligaments

Contains a bioactive compound called eugenol that inhibits

inflammation from cytokines

Eugenol also improves liver function by inhibiting the formation of

cells that form cirrhosis

Basil

=== PAGE 130 ===
Contains eugenol, which relaxes blood vessels, lowers blood pressure,

and helps regulate blood glucose levels

Its compounds eugenol, citronellol, and linalool inhibit cytokines and

gene expression, which prevents inflammation.

Oregano

Its chemical compounds thymol and carvacol are potent antioxidants

that inhibit the oxidation of fatty acids, which prevents cell damage.

Demonstrates antibacterial properties against twenty-three bacteria that

can lead to infection

Thyme

Contains baicalein, which induces dog bone cancer cell death

Contains a phenol called thymol that breaks down the cell membranes

of pathogens, making it antimicrobial

Ginger

Consuming ginger relieves the inflammation associated with muscle

pain.

Helps decrease levels of inflammatory molecules (eicosanoids) that

can lead to the development of colon cancer

Contains oils and phenolic compounds that help reduce nausea

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 131 ===
Chapter 3

Treats and Toppers

Pet treats have long been associated with empty calories, carb-

heavy fillers, and a wad of additives that do more harm to your pet

than good. Most mammals love snacks, but dogs and cats don’t

need junk food, so we’ve crafted the following nutritionally rich

treats and toppers that—along with CLTs—will replace the 10

percent nutrient-starved scraps, kibble, and treats you may have

been feeding your pet.

Treats can serve a purpose—to reward your pet for a job well

done or to reinforce good behavior while training—so continue

using them this way. Try to steer clear of giving treats because your

pet is lonely or bored, because you think they’re cute, or because

they’re hanging around the kitchen. Keep your treats small to avoid

a blood sugar spike—the size of a pea or blueberry is ideal—and

note what it is your dog responds to. Do they love the flavor of

carrots? Stick with the carrot treats and toppers to start. Are

chicken hearts doing it for them? That’s great! Keep it up! Then

branch out into similar but new flavors they might enjoy, and

continue on this healthy snacking trend, sequentially trying new

treats, even ones your beloved refused last month.

=== PAGE 132 ===
New Foods Provide Enrichment: Animals who consume the

same food every day miss out on the opportunity to try new

textures and flavors. Imagine eating cereal daily, then being

offered a delectable, warm, homemade stew. Trying new

foods provides an enriching sensory experience for our

animals.

Double the enrichment value by offering a variety of

foods in a novel presentation: fill each individual cup in an

empty egg carton, using new or familiar foods, and varying

taste, texture, and even temperature to elevate feeding time to

a total sensory experience.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 133 ===
Jerkies and Dehydrated Snacks

=== PAGE 134 ===
Whether you make it from vegetables or meat, jerky is flavorful,

concentrated nutrition. Use jerky as a training treat, a reward, or a

way to pack in a quick nutrient boost. We’ve held off suggesting

ingredient sizes because you may want to make a small portion of

jerky—or you may want to make a lot. All jerkies or dehydrated

meats and vegetables can be stored in an airtight container in the

refrigerator for a month or the freezer for up to three months. Thaw

prior to feeding.

Spotlight on Organ Meats: Organ meats are powerful

ancestral sources of protein, and 4,500-year-old fossilized

poop, found only a few miles from Stonehenge, reveals that

dogs ate internal organs—oftentimes raw or undercooked by

their people. Organ meats are also full of vitamins, minerals,

and fatty acids, and dogs fed organ meats have significantly

lower rates of skin allergies in adulthood.

Use the “paw principle” to determine how much organ

meat your dog can snack on per day. The size of one of their

paws (width, length, and depth) is an appropriate amount of

organ meat treats/toppers or add-ins. Feed a variety of organ

=== PAGE 135 ===
meats to diversify your pet’s intake of a broad spectrum of

minerals, including:

Liver: Nature’s richest source of copper, plus iron and vitamins

A, D, E, and K. Some people think that eating liver is toxic to

pets, but it’s not. Liver filters out toxins rather than storing them.

Instead, it stores nutrients! However, if you feed commercial pet

food that contains both liver and a copper supplement, you

should minimize feeding additional liver and choose other

organs as toppers and treats.

Heart: A great source of taurine, but feed raw, lightly cooked, or

dehydrated because taurine losses increase with heat. Hearts are

also full of iron, selenium, zinc, and B vitamins, and are one of

the best nutritional sources of CoQ10.

Kidneys: Rich in protein, folate, omega-3 fatty acids, and

diamine oxidase (DAO), the enzyme that breaks down histamine

(excellent for allergic animals). Beef kidneys and hearts also

contain more alpha-lipoic acid (ALA) than any other food!

Fresh tripe (stomach): Rich in probiotics, prebiotics, and

minerals, including manganese, iron, potassium, zinc, copper,

and selenium. Tripe sold in the meat section of grocery stores or

that’s been canned or dried has few nutritional benefits. Seek it

out fresh (aka “green”) from specialty raw food retailers or local

farmers.

Brain: Richer in DHA than fish! Steer clear of raw cow and

venison brains, which can cause prion disease and lead to

neurological conditions.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 136 ===
Meat Jerky

Meat: Boneless chicken breast, rabbit loin, lean cut of beef (such as

sirloin), liver, turkey breast, lamb loin, or lean pork

Fresh or dried herbs to taste (ginger, turmeric, rosemary, cumin, basil,

or others)

Pinch of sesame seeds, chia, or flaxseeds

1 tablespoon coconut oil, pineapple juice, or raw honey

1 teaspoon ground turmeric root, “coconut aminos” (coconut-derived

soy sauce substitute), or almond butter

Optional toppings: Dress up your jerky as we did—or experiment with

whatever you like.

In an oven:

=== PAGE 137 ===
1. Preheat oven to 170°F.

2. If using cuts of meat, partially freeze the meat (for approximately 15–

20 minutes) to make it easier to slice.

3. Cut off all visible fat. Slice the meat lengthwise into uniform strips, ⅛

to ¼ inch thick. Note: if the meat is thicker than ¼ inch, it takes longer

to dehydrate.

4. Optional: Sprinkle with herbs or seeds, glazing with oil, juice, or

honey and turmeric, almond butter, or coconut aminos.

5. Place pieces in a single layer, spaced 1 inch apart, on a greased metal

rack.

6. Place rack on top of a baking sheet to catch drippings.

7. Place in oven, then crack door open with a wooden spoon.

8. Cook for five hours or until the meat is crisp and breaks easily,

flipping over the strips midway through cooking time.

In a dehydrator:

1. Follow preparation above (cutting meat, sprinkling or mixing herbs,

and glazing).

2. Place meat slices on a lightly greased rack, spaced 1 inch apart.

3. Dehydrate at 160°F for 6–12 hours or until the meat is crisp and breaks

easily.

Note: If the meat is not cooked thoroughly until crisp, it risks spoiling

quickly.

Be Patient with Your Dehydrator: Dehydration times can

vary based on the humidity levels in your home, which impact

=== PAGE 138 ===
the degree to which food dehydrates. Adjust temperature and

cooking times as needed.

Antonov Maxim/Shutterstock, Inc.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 139 ===
Ground Meat Jerky

Meat:

8 ounces lean ground meat (rabbit, turkey, chicken, beef, bison, or any

novel protein)

3 tablespoons gelatin powder

Optional: your favorite herbs

1. Preheat oven to 200°F.

2. Mix ingredients in a medium bowl until well combined.

3. Press mixture into a flat layer on a parchment paper–lined baking

sheet. It should be a thin layer, but not so thin that the paper shows

through.

4. Bake for 1 hour.

5. Remove the sheet from the oven and turn the oven off.

6. Lay a second sheet of parchment paper on top of the jerky, then flip the

baking sheet over to transfer the jerky to the second sheet.

7. Place the jerky back in the oven (turned off), using a baking sheet

under the parchment paper if needed for stability.

8. Let the jerky dry and cool in the oven for 3 hours.

9. Cut into bite-sized strips.

10. For extra-crispy jerky, cook an additional two hours at 160°F.

Dehydrating Broccoli: We cut off the broccoli stems before

making jerky because they take a bit longer to dry. Do not

=== PAGE 140 ===
throw the stems out; they’re a highly nutritious ready-to-feed

treat, so chop them into bite-sized pieces.

Broccoli is a powerful source of two supermolecules: 3,3’-

Diindolylmethane (DIM) and sulforaphane, both of which

turn on the body’s production of glutathione, an antioxidant

whose detox abilities are one of the body’s most potent.

Broccoli stems have double the amount of sulforaphane

compared to florets. (Note: you can’t supplement with

sulforaphane because it degrades too quickly. Taking it in

through food is the way to go.) DIM also helps balance

hormones, is anticancer, and clears the body of xenoestrogens,

dangerous environmental chemicals that mimic estrogen.

Never microwave your broccoli, because even five

minutes reduces the flavonoid (antioxidant) content by a

whopping 97 percent.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 141 ===
Fruit and Vegetable Jerky

=== PAGE 142 ===
Dehydrating is a great way to use your leftover fruit and veggies before

they go bad. The fact is you can dehydrate almost anything—from bananas

to blueberries to broccoli . . . to whatever your pet loves to eat or that fits

around their dietary needs and goals. (We’d like to give a special shout-out

to dried banana chips, which may be the best training treats on the planet

and are great for dogs with sensitive stomachs.) Have a senior with no

teeth? Go soft and small. Dieting dogs appreciate small and crunchy, and

puppies need micro-rewards (as they’re in training 24/7). Feel free to add

herbs to your fruit or vegetable jerky, too. Simply brush Manuka honey or

black seed oil on the food before you dehydrate it, then sprinkle away.

You may need to adjust cooking directions based on the type of fruit or

vegetable you use and how water-dense it is. Foods like bananas take a bit

longer to dry out, while apples dehydrate more quickly. Note that the

thinner you cut a fruit or vegetable, the faster it will turn into jerky.

In an oven:

1. Preheat oven to 170°F (or lowest setting).

2. Cut food into ¼-inch-thick slices or bite-sized pieces.

3. For vegetables except for green peppers and mushrooms, blanch first:

Bring a pot of filtered water to a rolling boil. Fill a separate bowl or pot with filtered ice water.

Place the vegetable in the boiling water for three minutes, strain, then place in ice water.

Strain again and allow to dry.

4. Place slices an inch apart on a greased baking sheet, or a silicone

baking mat or parchment paper on a baking sheet.

5. Place in oven, propping door open with a wooden spoon.

6. Bake for about 2–2.5 hours, until dried to desired consistency.

In a dehydrator:

1. Cut food into slices ⅛ inch thick, or desired size for training treats.

(For vegetables except for green peppers and mushrooms, blanch first,

following directions above.)

=== PAGE 143 ===
2. Dehydrate at 135°F for 12–20 hours, or until crisp.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 144 ===
Manuka-Glazed Chicken Jerky

=== PAGE 145 ===
These Manuka honey treats are good for the gut and delicious, with just the

tiniest bit of sweetness.

1 tablespoon coconut oil

1 teaspoon grated, chopped, or food processed herb or spice of your

choice (here we use cinnamon and rosemary)

1 tablespoon raw or Manuka honey

1 chicken breast, pounded flat, sliced into strips or bite-sized pieces

Dash of sesame seeds or other seeds (hemp, chia, black seeds)

1. Preheat oven to 250°F. Grease a baking dish with one tablespoon

coconut oil.

2. Mix herbs and honey in a small bowl.

3. Coat chicken with mixture using a silicone brush, or just spoon the

mixture over the chicken.

4. Place the chicken in a single layer in the dish. Sprinkle seeds over the

chicken.

5. Bake for 45 minutes or until the chicken is fully cooked and opaque

white throughout.

Honey for Health: Manuka honey is produced by bees that

have foraged on the flowers of Leptospermum trees, more

commonly known as the tea tree plant, native to Australia and

New Zealand. Manuka honey has much higher antibacterial

properties than regular, raw honey, which is why it’s also used

topically to treat burns, wounds, and antibiotic-resistant skin

infections. Orally, it’s beneficial for gastrointestinal ulcers,

and may be of benefit for irritable bowel syndrome.

=== PAGE 146 ===
OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 147 ===
Bite-Sized Treats

=== PAGE 148 ===
While almost anything can become a bite-sized treat, these recipes

are healthy, enriching ways to make your pet’s 10 percent add-ons

feel special. All treats can be stored in an airtight container in the

refrigerator for three days or the freezer for up to three months.

Thaw prior to feeding.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 149 ===
Medication Marbles

Next time you’re tempted to buy pill pouches at the pet or grocery store,

think again. Commercial pill pouches contain all kinds of unnatural

ingredients, including wheat gluten, wheat flour, corn syrup, and vegetable

oil, which pets have no need for. If your pet isn’t a fan of pills, disguise

them in this choline-rich treat!

=== PAGE 150 ===
Yields about 9 small or 4 large marbles

1 egg, shelled

1 teaspoon gelatin

1. If using an oven (rather than a microwave), preheat oven to 250°F.

2. Whisk egg and gelatin to thoroughly combine.

3. Pour liquid into a 2-inch-diameter (or smaller) silicone mold or

silicone ice cube tray, using the outer cavities.

4. In an oven, cook for 20–25 minutes.

5. Or, in a microwave, cook on high for 10 seconds, then remove and let

cool for 15–20 seconds. Microwave again until egg puffs pull away

from the sides of the mold.

6. Let cool, then remove the puffs from the mold.

Pro Tips for Popping Pills: When it’s pill time, prepare a

second, small and unmedicated treat (preferably your pet’s

absolute most favorite treat). Immediately after offering the

medicated pill pouch, encourage instantaneous swallowing by

offering the second delectable morsel.

Have a finicky cat (or dog)? Cream cheese, ricotta cheese,

unsweetened applesauce, plain Greek yogurt, meatballs,

almond butter, or fresh mozzarella cheese can also help mask

medications, supplements, or pills.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 151 ===
Sneaky Easy Pill Pouches

=== PAGE 152 ===


=== PAGE 153 ===


=== PAGE 154 ===
iStock.com/Gulnar Akhmedova

These two- to three-ingredient pill pouches are a breeze to make and great

at disguising icky pills.

Yields 8–12 pill pouches, depending on how large you roll the balls

Beef ’n’ Cheese Pouch

⅓ cup cottage cheese

½ cup ground meat (raw or cooked)

Pumpkin Pouch

4 teaspoons gelatin

½ cup canned or steamed 100% pumpkin puree, heated

Almond Pouch

5 tablespoons almond meal or flour

⅓ cup raw almond butter

Savory Cream Cheese Pouch

2 tablespoons broth

¼ cup cream cheese

1–2 teaspoons coconut or almond flour

1. Combine ingredients in a small bowl (for recipes requiring heating, let

cool to lukewarm).

2. Roll into ½- to 1-inch balls, or whatever size pill pouch you need. If a

recipe contains meat or flour, wet your fingers before handling to

prevent mixture from sticking to your hands.

3. For the Pumpkin Pouch recipe, refrigerate to firm up before rolling

into balls.

=== PAGE 155 ===
4. Insert straw into each ball to create a hole for the pill, the “pouch.”

When it’s medication time: insert pill/capsule or powder into the food

pouch, pinch closed, and serve.

Note: If you store pill pouches frozen, thaw prior to inserting pills or

powders.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 156 ===
Avocado Deviled Eggs

Avocados are rich in vitamins and minerals including vitamins C and E,

folate, fiber, healthy fats for brain function, phytosterols for heart function,

and—pound for pound—contain more potassium than bananas. They also

contain lipase, an enzyme necessary to digest fats. Have a dog who’s prone

to high cholesterol and triglycerides, like a schnauzer, collie, or Shetland

sheepdog? Eating avocados can also help lower triglyceride levels.

2 hard-boiled eggs, shelled

½ ripe avocado

Optional: broccoli sprouts

Optional: DIY Vitamin/Mineral Greens Powder

=== PAGE 157 ===
1. Slice the eggs in half and place the yolks in a small bowl.

2. Add the avocado flesh to the bowl.

3. Mash together until well combined.

4. Optional: Stir in broccoli sprouts—or top the mixture with sprouts

after the last step.

5. Optional: Dust with a pinch of DIY Vitamin/Mineral Greens Powder.

6. Spoon the avocado/yolk mixture into the egg white wells.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 158 ===
Detox Delights

These yummy meatballs can be served cooked or raw, or you can spread the

raw meat on a lick mat or crumble and use as a topper.

Yields 18–30 meatballs, depending on size

=== PAGE 159 ===
1 pound ground beef

½ cup cilantro, minced (or approximately 500 milligrams milk thistle

powder, capsules removed)

¼ cup fresh, unsprayed dandelion greens (or approximately 500

milligrams dandelion powder, capsules removed)

½ cup any medicinal or culinary mushrooms

Optional: ¼ cup sprouts (any type)

Note: If you use greens rather than capsules, use a maximum of ¾ cup

so the meatballs hold together.

1. Preheat oven to 250°F if serving cooked.

2. Mix all ingredients in a medium bowl.

3. If using in a lick mat or as a topper, you can serve now.

4. If baking, roll into marble-sized meatballs and place on an ungreased

baking sheet, silicone baking mat, or parchment paper.

5. Bake for 15 minutes for ½-inch-diameter meatballs, 25 minutes for

larger meatballs, or until firm throughout.

Cilantro Is a Mold Buster: Mycotoxin is a toxic mold that

infects grains, and commercial dog foods are full of them. (In

one study, nine out of the twelve dog foods tested contained

them!) Mycotoxins can lead to organ disease,

immunosuppression, cancer, and more, and while it’s best to

avoid them entirely, sometimes it’s too late. Cilantro can help.

This flavorful herb contains polyacetylene, an organic

compound that helps detoxify mycotoxins from the body.

Cilantro can also chelate heavy metals from the body

(something commercial dog food is full of), naturally binding

=== PAGE 160 ===
an average of 87 percent of lead, 91 percent of mercury, and

74 percent of aluminum within forty-five days.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 161 ===
Immune Puree

=== PAGE 162 ===
This recipe uses medium-chain triglyceride (MCT) oil—a “good fat”

extracted from coconut oil, palm oil, or certain dairy products. MCT oil is

antimicrobial and energy-boosting, increases omega-3 levels in the brain,

and can improve seizures, behavior, and cognitive function in epileptic

dogs. Use this recipe as a meal topper or on a lick mat, or pour into ice

molds or a mini muffin tin to freeze. Serve at any temperature, though

finicky cats love it warm.

Yields about 1 cup

8 ounces (3 cups) medicinal mushrooms, any type, chopped

2 tablespoons MCT oil

½ cup broccoli sprouts

Optional: tiny pinch of Himalayan salt

1. Sauté chopped mushrooms in MCT oil on low heat until reduced

(about 1 cup total).

2. Puree the mushroom and oil mixture, then add sprouts and optional

salt, and puree until smooth.

3. Pour into molds or mini tins to freeze.

4. Thaw prior to feeding (and warm, if desired).

Serving Suggestions: Most ice cube trays are one ounce, which is the

perfect size for a small dog’s daily portion. Extra-small dogs and cats can

start with 0.5 ounce/day, medium to large dogs 2 ounces, and XL dogs 3

ounces.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 163 ===
Low-Fat Turkey Bites

Low-fat foods like turkey can be soothing to pets with sensitive stomachs,

and fermented foods (such as cottage cheese) can help GI issues even more.

Add mushrooms or herbs to this treat for an extra nutritional (and flavor)

boost.

Yields 6 regular or 12 mini muffins

½ pound ground 99 percent fat-free turkey

¼ cup canned or steamed squash or pumpkin

¼ cup cottage cheese or unsweetened applesauce

=== PAGE 164 ===
1. Preheat oven to 200°F.

2. Combine all ingredients in a medium bowl.

3. Press mixture into muffin tins, filling cavities ⅓ full.

4. Bake for 35 minutes or until cooked through and firm.

5. Let cool 15 minutes, then remove from muffin tin.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 165 ===
Microbiome Morsels

If your pet is prone to constipation, these fiber-rich morsels can help.

Yields 8–12 morsels, depending on size

½ cup psyllium husk powder

½ cup kefir or plain yogurt

1 cup chicken livers, pureed

1 tablespoon gelatin powder

1. Preheat oven to 250°F.

=== PAGE 166 ===
2. Mix all ingredients in a medium bowl.

3. Drop by teaspoonfuls on greased baking sheet, silicone baking mat, or

parchment paper.

4. Bake for 15 minutes until the morsels hold together well.

One of Our Favorite Shrubs: Psyllium is a medicinal shrub

with an indigestible husk that’s chock-full of beneficial

dietary fiber. In powder form, psyllium can be added to

toppers or lick mats, or snuck into homemade meals or baked

goods like these delicious cookies. Not only will it help with

constipation, but, for dogs with colitis, psyllium has been

found to shorten the duration of a flare-up by 3½ days over

antibiotics.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 167 ===
Meatless Morsels

=== PAGE 168 ===
When animals have leaky gut (dysbiosis) and dietary sensitivities, food

allergies can develop. Vets often recommend a break from potentially

allergenic protein sources, so this treat is especially good for animals who

need a meat-free or lower-protein food.

Yields 10–15 morsels, depending on size

1 cup nonwheat flour (See our favorites here. If using coconut flour,

decrease amount to ⅓ cup.)

2 tablespoons olive oil

1 tablespoon gelatin powder

1 small banana, mashed

1. Preheat oven to 250°F.

2. Combine all ingredients in a medium bowl and stir until thoroughly

combined.

3. Roll into ½-inch balls and place on a greased baking sheet, silicone

baking mat, or parchment paper.

4. Bake for 40 minutes, or until you can lift these treats off the mat,

paper, or baking sheet easily.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 169 ===
Jerusalem Artichoke Chips

Also known as sunchokes, Jerusalem artichokes are terrific tubers rich in

inulin. Mild, nutty, and slightly sweet, most pets love these microbiome-

building crunchy treats.

Jerusalem artichokes (as many as desired), sliced approximately ⅛

inch thin

1. Preheat oven to 250°F.

=== PAGE 170 ===
2. Place sliced Jerusalem artichokes on a greased baking sheet, silicone

baking mat, or parchment paper.

3. Bake 30 minutes. Remove from oven, flip chips, replace in oven, and

bake another 30 minutes.

4. Remove when chips are crisp and golden.

Eat Your Microbes: Healthy soil is essential for a healthy

gut, and feeding your pet root vegetables like Jerusalem

artichokes is a great way to give them the beneficial microbes

they need. The microbiome of the soil and the gut are almost

identical, yet toxic food, medications, and an unhealthy

environment have caused the diversity of mammals’

microbiomes to plummet. Microbes from the soil live on food

even after it’s washed, so feeding your pet organic root

vegetables can contribute to a varied, abundant microbiome.

In fact, when we asked Tim Spector, professor of genetic

epidemiology and director of the Twins UK Registry at King’s

College London, what one food he would recommend feeding

for a better canine microbiome, he immediately said,

“Jerusalem artichokes!”

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 171 ===
The Celebration Cake

=== PAGE 172 ===
Celebrate special occasions with this dog-safe decadent treat. We like to

boil the sweet potatoes in vegetable broth for a nutrient boost.

½ pound ground beef

1 egg, shelled

½ cup oatmeal (we use steel-cut organic sprouted oats)

¼ cup shredded cheese

1 large or 2 small sweet potatoes

Blueberries, strawberries, and/or peas to garnish

For the cake:

1. Preheat oven to 220°F.

2. Combine beef, egg, oatmeal, and cheese in a medium bowl, mixing

until thoroughly combined.

3. Press the mixture into two mini cake tins or shape into patties

approximately 6 inches in diameter and place on an ungreased baking

sheet, silicone baking mat, or parchment paper.

4. Bake 2½ hours or until done.

5. Press patties flat as soon as they come out of the oven. Let cool.

For the frosting:

1. While the cake is baking, make the frosting.

2. Peel the sweet potato and cut it into 1-inch chunks.

3. Place the chunks into a medium pan and fill with filtered water or

broth until the chunks are covered.

4. Bring to a boil over high heat, then lower to medium-low and cook

until soft.

5. Drain the water and set it aside.

=== PAGE 173 ===
6. Mash the sweet potato or use an electric mixer, adding reserved water

by the tablespoon until a spreadable consistency is reached.

7. Frost the top of one cake with enough mashed sweet potato to cover,

then place the second layer on top. Cover the top and sides of the

layered cake with the remaining sweet potato.

8. Place blueberries, cut strawberries, and peas on the cake as desired to

decorate.

Sweet Potatoes—Colorful, Nutritious, and Delicious:

Choose an orange sweet potato for a beta-carotene boost.

Beta-carotene is a powerful antioxidant, and research shows

that it can help restore immune responses in older dogs,

whose immune systems decline as they age. Purple sweet

potatoes are rich in compounds called anthocyanins, which

are anti-inflammatory and may help prevent cancer and

cognitive decline.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 174 ===
Green Banana Biscotti

=== PAGE 175 ===
A savory and delicious biscotti, without all the carbs.

Yields 12–15 biscotti

2 green bananas, peeled

¼ cup plain kefir

1½ cups almond flour

1. Preheat oven to 220°F.

2. Blend all ingredients in a blender or mixer.

3. Pour into one greased 5x7-inch loaf pan or two 3x5-inch mini loaf

pans. Smooth the tops with a spatula.

4. Bake for 60–90 minutes (the mini loaves bake faster than the larger

one). The loaf is done once it springs back when touched lightly.

5. Remove from oven and let cool for 20 minutes. Lower oven

temperature to 200°F.

6. Flip cake onto a cutting board and slice into ½-inch strips.

7. Place the strips on a greased baking sheet, silicone baking mat, or

parchment paper and bake again for 30 minutes, or until dry on the top

side. Flip over and bake for an additional 30 minutes. Continue

flipping every 30 minutes until thoroughly dry.

8. Remove from oven and let cool.

9. Store in a dry, cool place for a week. Freeze up to three months.

Go Green for Gut Health: Unripe (green) bananas are the

unsung heroes of gut health. They are high in prebiotics,

which positively influence blood sugar control and help

increase the production of butyrate, a short-chain fatty acid

=== PAGE 176 ===
that is formed when starch ferments in the gut. Butyrate acts

as an energy source for colon cells (providing up to 70 percent

of their energy!), supports the immune system, and helps

reduce inflammation. The greener the bananas you use in

recipes and as treats, the lower the sugar and the more healthy,

resistant starch and pectin are present, which improves gut

health and helps keep blood sugar and insulin low and steady.

If you don’t bake your green bananas into a tasty training

treat, cut them into bite-sized pieces and feed them according

to this schedule:

Giant breed dogs: ½ green banana a day

Medium to large breeds: ¼ green banana a day

Small breeds: ⅛ green banana a day

Cats: 2 teaspoons, mashed, per day

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 177 ===
Cookies

=== PAGE 178 ===
These guilt-free, nutritious cookies are the perfect treat to have on

hand whenever you want to give your pet a healthy snack. Many of

the recipes here involve only three ingredients, and you can store

the cookies for one week in the refrigerator or up to three months in

the freezer. (Just remember to thaw them completely prior to

serving.) We recommend breaking treats into tiny pieces, replacing

your store-bought pet cookies or treats with these homemade,

fresher options.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 179 ===
Good Old-Fashioned Dog Biscuits

These biscuits are as basic as you can get, with gluten-free buckwheat flour

derived from seeds, making it naturally low in starch. Note that we use

Himalayan Tartary buckwheat flour over regular buckwheat flour for the

added health benefits. We love to cut these into fun shapes or bite-sized

training treats.

Yields 24 2-inch cookies

3 cups Himalayan Tartary buckwheat flour

1 cup broth

⅓ cup butter, softened

Pinch of salt

=== PAGE 180 ===
1. Preheat oven to 250°F.

2. In a bowl, mix ingredients together with an electric mixer.

3. Using a rolling pin, roll dough to ¼ inch flat on silicone mat.

4. Cut into desired shapes using cookie cutters or a pizza cutter, or punch

dough with a straw (if making tiny training treats). Or, if you don’t

want to roll dough flat, you can create different-sized morsels by hand.

5. Place cookies on a baking sheet lined with a silicone baking mat or

parchment paper and bake 10–30 minutes depending on size of treats

and desired crunchiness.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 181 ===
Carrot Cake Cookies

Carrots are apiaceous vegetables (along with parsley and fennel . . . to name

a few), containing high amounts of plant bioactive phenolic compounds and

even acting as antimicrobials. Coupled with pecans—which can improve

gut health in dogs—these cookies are nutritional powerhouses.

Yields about 8 cookies

⅔ cup carrots, grated

2 eggs, beaten

¼ cup finely chopped raw, unsalted pecans

¼ cup unsweetened shredded coconut

½ teaspoon cinnamon

1 tablespoon coconut flour

=== PAGE 182 ===
For the frosting: Plain Greek yogurt

1. Preheat oven to 250°F.

2. Combine carrot, eggs, pecans, coconut, and cinnamon in a bowl.

3. Stir in coconut flour and incorporate completely.

4. Drop teaspoon-sized morsels on a parchment-lined baking sheet,

flattening the mounds slightly.

5. Bake for 60 minutes or until firm.

6. Let cool completely.

7. “Frost” cookies with a dollop of Greek yogurt (about 1 teaspoon per

cookie) and top with any extra shredded coconut, if desired.

Though you can use any type of flour or nut butter in the recipes that call

for them, these are our favorites:

=== PAGE 183 ===


=== PAGE 184 ===
Almond, Peanut, Walnut, Cashew: Sketch Master/Shutterstock, Inc.;

Buckwheat, Sunflower seeds: Spicy Truffel/Shutterstock, Inc.; Banana:

mamita/Shutterstock, Inc; Flour: Qualit Design/Shutterstock, Inc.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 185 ===
Ginger Bones

=== PAGE 186 ===
Rich in antioxidants, ginger promotes healthy blood circulation, acts as an

anti-inflammatory, and can relieve nausea (even complete protection against

side effects of chemotherapy). It also contains a substance called [6]-

gingerol that activates white blood cells, making ginger a powerful immune

booster. We love to tie these cookies to a wreath to make a pawliday gift!

Yields about 36 cookies (using 3.5-inch dog bone cookie cutter)

1 cup pumpkin or any steamed squash

1½ cups coconut flour

4 eggs, shelled

½ cup peanut butter or almond butter

½ cup coconut, MCT, or black seed oil

½ teaspoon baking soda

¼ teaspoon dried ginger (or ½ teaspoon freshly grated)

1. Preheat oven to 250°F.

2. Mix all ingredients well in a medium bowl.

3. Place in freezer for 20 minutes to make dough easier to work with.

4. Roll dough out between two sheets of parchment paper to about ¼-

inch uniform thickness.

5. Use a bone-shaped cookie cutter to cut out bones.

6. Transfer the bones to a greased baking sheet, silicone baking mat, or

parchment paper, leaving at least 1 inch between them.

7. Bake for 30–45 minutes or until bones are lightly browned and set. Let

cool.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 187 ===
Rustic Seed Snacks (Canine “Crackers”)

=== PAGE 188 ===
Raw, unsalted seeds and nuts are one of the richest sources of manganese, a

nutrient that boosts a dog’s humoral immune response and supports a

healthy musculoskeletal system. Mix and match your favorite seeds in these

manganese-rich cookies.

10 tablespoons raw, unsalted seeds (any combination of chia, whole

flax, black or white sesame seeds, hemp hearts, black cumin seeds. If

using sunflower or pumpkin seeds, grind to smaller pieces for smaller

dogs.)

Pinch of salt

2 teaspoons olive oil

½ cup broth or water (see here for broth ideas)

2 tablespoons almond flour

1. Preheat oven to 250°F.

2. Combine the seeds, salt, and olive oil, add bone broth or water and

almond flour, and let set for 10 minutes until the mixture starts to bind

together and turns gummy in consistency.

3. Spread mixture to ¼-inch thickness on greased baking sheet, silicone

baking mat, or parchment paper.

4. Bake for 1 hour.

5. Carefully turn over cracker with a large spatula and use pizza cutter to

cut into desired treat size (½- to 1-inch squares). Continue baking

another 30 minutes.

6. Turn off oven and let cracker continue to dry as oven cools down.

Remove from oven once cool.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 189 ===
Three-Ingredient Treats

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 190 ===
Banana Honey Tea Biscuits

These banana-based biscuits are rich in potassium, with added honey for an

antioxidant boost.

Yields 6–8 biscuits

1 medium banana

½ teaspoon raw, local honey

¼ cup almond flour

Optional: sliced almonds for garnish

1. Preheat oven to 250°F.

2. Mash banana in a bowl. Add honey and almond flour; stir to combine

thoroughly.

3. Drop by tablespoonful on a greased baking sheet, silicone baking mat,

or parchment paper.

4. Top cookies with sliced almonds, if using.

5. Bake for 60 minutes, or until set.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 191 ===
Herbed Cottage Crumpets

Let your pet get their fill of prebiotic goodness with these cottage cheese–

based cookies.

Yields 6–10 cookies

½ cup cottage cheese

2 tablespoons buckwheat flour

1 tablespoon finely chopped fresh herbs or 1 teaspoon dried herbs of

your choice (rosemary, sage, thyme, parsley, basil, oregano, cilantro, or

more—mix and match or use one herb)

1. Preheat oven to 250°F.

2. Mix all ingredients together until well combined.

3. Drop by spoonful onto a greased baking sheet, silicone baking mat, or

parchment paper.

4. Bake for 90 minutes.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 192 ===
Apple Cinnamon Tarts

These tasty tarts are a great source of pectin, the prebiotic fiber in apples

that feeds the microbiome. Their cinnamon is also loaded with polyphenols

that protect the body from free radical damage and help regulate insulin and

blood sugar.

=== PAGE 193 ===
Yields 8–10 tarts

4 ounces (½ cup) unsweetened applesauce (to make your own

applesauce, use the recipe here)

1 teaspoon ground cinnamon

2 tablespoons coconut flour

1. Preheat oven to 250°F.

2. Mix all ingredients together in a small bowl.

3. Roll dough in small balls (½ to 1 inch, depending on what size treat

you want) and place on a greased baking sheet, silicone baking mat, or

parchment paper. Flatten slightly with a fork.

4. Bake for 60 minutes or until firm.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 194 ===
Coconut Macaroons

This fast-’n’-easy goody stars coconut, which contains antioxidants that can

help protect against DNA damage.

Yields 6–8 cookies, depending on size

1 egg white

1 cup unsweetened shredded coconut

=== PAGE 195 ===
⅓ cup plain kefir

1. Preheat oven to 250°F.

2. Beat the egg white until stiff peaks form.

3. Combine coconut and kefir in a bowl, stirring to combine thoroughly.

4. Gently fold in egg white.

5. Use a cookie scoop or spoon to drop mounds on a greased baking

sheet, silicone baking mat, or parchment paper.

6. Bake for 30 minutes or until very lightly browned.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 196 ===
Dr. Holly Ganz’s Prebiotic Cookies

One of our favorite microbial ecologists gifted us this recipe, which can

also be crumbled into a topper. Sweet potatoes are full of prebiotic fiber but

if you purchase them canned, make sure they are unsweetened.

Yields approximately 40 1½-inch cookies

¼ cup whitefish, poached and flaked

¼ cup peanut butter, no sugar or oil

⅔ cup sweet potato puree

1 cup oat flour

¾ cup chickpea flour

=== PAGE 197 ===
1. Preheat oven to 250°F.

2. In a bowl, mix ingredients together.

3. Place on a floured surface. Using a rolling pin, roll into sheets about ¼

to ⅜ inch thick. Cut into desired shapes, rerolling extra dough to make

additional cookies.

4. Place cookies on a greased baking sheet, silicone baking mat, or

parchment paper. Bake for 2 hours, turning over every 30 minutes until

edges are firm and somewhat dry.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 198 ===
Cool Treats

Frozen treats are great to cool off hot dogs or to offer long-lasting

enrichment for dogs who like to lick. These recipes can be served

=== PAGE 199 ===
many ways, including freeze pops (larger “pupsicles”), thawed and

smeared on lick mats, or frozen into silicone molds and tiny treats.

Cool treats can also be served as food toppers, in interactive toys as

a slushie, or at room temperature (or even warmed, for animals that

don’t like cold treats). Always supervise animals while enjoying

goodies. If you have concerns your dog may try to swallow treats

whole, use extra-large molds (like cake or loaf pans) or put frozen

treats in a blender for a shaved ice treat. Feed all frozen treats

within three months.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 200 ===
Lycopene Lickers

Give your dog this hydrating, immune-bolstering treat on a hot day.

Watermelon and tomatoes are loaded with lycopene, a nutrient that

stimulates programmed cell death (apoptosis), which means your pup’s

cellular housecleaning is turned on and amped up. We’ve also found an

occasional cat that shows semi-interest in tasting plain watermelon.

Yields about 24 lickers (using 3 tablespoon molds)

2 cups watermelon, cubed

Optional: ¼ cup kefir or Greek yogurt

2–3 fresh basil leaves (or ½ teaspoon dried)

=== PAGE 201 ===
1. Combine watermelon, kefir or yogurt if using, and basil in blender.

Puree until smooth. If your pup prefers a thinner consistency, add

filtered water.

2. Freeze in a silicone mold of your choosing.

3. To serve, let thaw slightly in refrigerator until the slush is no longer a

solid block of ice.

4. Optional: You can make this delectable treat look like a watermelon by

creating layers. Freeze pureed watermelon in molds, then add kefir and

freeze again. Blend the basil with filtered water, place on top of the

watermelon/kefir layers, and freeze again.

Bring on the Basil: Basil is rich in polyphenols and

antioxidants, making it anti-inflammatory and anticancer.

Adding basil significantly elevates glutathione, catalase, and

superoxide dismustase (SOD) levels as well, while also

exerting an antidiabetic effect.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 202 ===
Antioxidant Pupsicles

=== PAGE 203 ===
If your dog turns her nose up at greens, this recipe is a great way to sneak

them in. It’s also a fabulous boredom-buster, as they lick the frozen broth to

get to the “prizes” inside.

Fill ice pop molds or paper cups ⅔ full of any combination as follows:

1. Fill with broth, kefir, tea, or a combination of all of them.

2. Add an edible handle if desired (we like fresh asparagus, chicken feet,

carrots, or dehydrated tendons).

Leftovers Repurposed: If you don’t have ice pop molds for

frozen treats, use paper cups instead. Fill the cups with

leftovers, freeze them, remove the cup, and watch your pet

lick to their heart’s content.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 204 ===
Cognition Cubes

=== PAGE 205 ===
This frozen treat mixes brain-friendly coconut oil (rich in MCTs) and

cranberries, whose flavonoid content has been shown to improve episodic

memory and neural functioning.

Yields 24 cubes (using 3-tablespoon molds)

½ cup coconut oil, room temperature

½ to 1 cup sunflower seed, almond, or nut or seed butter of your

choosing

Cranberries, blueberries, or bite-sized fruit of your choosing

1. Coat bottom of ice cube trays or mini muffin molds with coconut oil.

2. Fill mold or tray halfway with seed or nut butter.

3. Add bite-sized fruit on top of the butter.

4. Fill to top with coconut oil and freeze.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 206 ===
Blue Zone ’Sicles

=== PAGE 207 ===
iStock.com/PeterHermesFurian

Sardines are potent sources of vitamin B12—vital for cardiovascular health

—and vitamin D, which can help prevent gastrointestinal problems in

canines.

=== PAGE 208 ===
Yields ⅔ cup

1 can (3.75 or 4.4 ounces) sardines, packed in water, drained (other

options: plain smelt, mussels, oysters, or salmon)

½ cup plain yogurt or kefir

1 teaspoon fresh cilantro, dandelion greens, or sprouts of your

choosing, minced

Optional: ⅛ teaspoon rosemary or other herbs of your choice, dried or

fresh

1. Puree all ingredients in food processor or blender.

2. To use as a frozen treat: fill silicone molds, toys, or lick mats and

freeze.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 209 ===
Longevity Sprout Cubes

Feed this longevity booster as a fun frozen treat, or add to your pet’s bowl,

coat with liquid, and watch it melt into a topper.

5 ounces sprouts of your choosing, raw

⅔ cup filtered water or broth

1. Puree sprouts and liquid in a blender or food processor.

2. Pour sprouts mixture into ice cube trays.

3. Freeze and store for up to 3 months.

Feed one ice cube per thirty pounds of body weight per day.

=== PAGE 210 ===
A Word on Broth: See here for a full discussion of broths,

but if you choose to buy a commercial broth (for example, to

use in this recipe), always pick one that’s free of onions and

low in sodium.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 211 ===
Dandelion Gut Cubes

=== PAGE 212 ===
Dandelion greens are fiber-rich gems that stimulate bile in the liver, which

then filters out toxins into the feces. Freeze these and use them as a tasty,

nutritious topper.

5 ounces fresh dandelion greens

⅔ cup filtered water or broth

1. Chop greens, place in ice cube trays, and cover with water, or puree

greens and water in a blender or food processor.

2. Pour greens mixture into ice cube trays and freeze.

Feed one ice cube per thirty pounds of body weight per day.

Save Your Dandelion Flowers: While this recipe calls for the

greens, don’t toss out the dandelion flowers. In dandelions,

polyphenols are concentrated 115 times more in the flowers

than in the roots. Rinse and dry them thoroughly (to prevent

fungal growth), then blend and add them to ice cubes, chop

and mix them with your pet’s food, or dehydrate them to

create dandelion powder.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 213 ===
Toppers with a Purpose

Toppers with a Purpose allow you to supercharge your pet’s food

right at mealtime. Each tailored for a different condition or

=== PAGE 214 ===
concern, they offer longevity-boosting benefits that enhance pets’

microbiomes, support their immune systems, rebuild their cells,

and more. Unless we indicate otherwise, you can add whatever

topper you choose to your pet’s food, spread it on a lick mat or in a

toy, or freeze for future fun.

Store all toppers in the refrigerator for three days or freezer for

three months (unless noted otherwise).

Suggested Serving Size: A dollop (1–2 tablespoons) per twenty pounds

of body weight per day. Always start with smaller amounts until your

animal adjusts to new flavors.

Expand Your Enrichment Opportunities: Dogs often have

hours of absolutely nothing every day, so enrichment is

crucial for their health. Food is enrichment all on its own, but

let’s not miss the opportunity to take it a step further: if your

dog has to solve a puzzle, conduct a search, or even lick

through a frosty (but nutritious) layer to devour the tasty

treasure hidden inside, his body and brain win. Plus,

channeling his energy and curiosity into enrichment activities

means he will be less likely to resort to devising his own (like

chewing on the furniture).

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 215 ===
Choline Cognition Topper

If this recipe yields large chunks, use them as training treats. Otherwise,

grind and sprinkle “crumbs” on food or a lick mat for a choline-filled topper

or enrichment activity.

9 eggs yield 1 cup powder

Eggs (as many as you choose), shelled

Optional: coconut or avocado oil, as needed

1. Preheat oven to 170°F.

2. Whisk eggs until thoroughly combined in a bowl.

3. Coat a pan with a very thin layer of coconut or avocado oil (if needed).

=== PAGE 216 ===
4. Pour egg mixture into pan and cook over low heat, gently stirring and

folding eggs until fully cooked.

5. Remove from pan and place on parchment paper–covered baking

sheet.

6. Place in oven and cook 4–6 hours, or until completely dry.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 217 ===
Cranberry Sardine Chutney

=== PAGE 218 ===
Cranberries bolster bladder and brain health, but they’re tart, so we like

cooking them in a savory broth or in leftover sardine water.

Yields 4 ounces

1 3.75-ounce can sardines, packed in water

⅓ cup fresh cranberries

⅛ cup water, broth of your choice, or retained sardine water

½ teaspoon gelatin powder

Optional: 1 tablespoon kefir

1. Drain sardines, reserving ⅛ cup liquid to chill (and additional ⅛ cup if

desired to cook cranberries).

2. Combine the cranberries and ⅛ cup broth, water, or sardine water in a

small saucepan.

3. Simmer over low heat until the cranberries become soft enough to

smash with a fork, about 5–10 minutes. Remove from heat.

4. Stir in gelatin powder.

5. Stir in chilled ⅛ cup water, broth, or sardine water.

6. Add sardines and mash together or combine in a food processor.

7. Add kefir if desired.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 219 ===
Pinches of Prebiotics

=== PAGE 220 ===
This egg roll–inspired prebiotic topper packs in cabbage, one of the most

nutritionally dense vegetables in the world (full of vitamins C and K,

potassium, prebiotic fiber, protein, and the antioxidant anthocyanin, which

fights inflammation and lowers the risk of cardiovascular disease).

¼ cup carrot, small diced or shredded

½ cup mushrooms, diced

½ teaspoon ginger, finely grated

1 cup green cabbage, shredded

For cooked version: 1 teaspoon coconut oil

1. Mix all ingredients in a large bowl and serve raw as a meal topper, on

a lick mat, or in an interactive toy.

2. Or, to cook, heat 1 teaspoon coconut oil in a large fry pan over

medium-low heat.

3. Add the carrot and sauté for a few minutes.

4. Add the mushrooms and cook until they begin to soften.

5. Add the ginger and stir to combine.

6. Add the cabbage, mixing in thoroughly.

7. Cover and let cook for 3–5 minutes, until cabbage has wilted and

softened slightly.

Serve freshly shredded or cooked

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 221 ===
Tabouli Biome Topper

=== PAGE 222 ===
Rodney Habib

In this topper, it’s out with the bad (gut bacteria), in with the good (gut

bacteria). Parsley is rich in a substance called apigenin, a dietary flavonoid

that stimulates the growth of certain good gut bacteria, and the menthol in

=== PAGE 223 ===
peppermint can mitigate the damage from bad bacteria, including H. pylori

and E. coli.

1 tablespoon fresh parsley, chopped

1 tablespoon fresh mint, chopped

1 cup cucumber, diced

½ cup tomato, diced

In a small bowl, combine all ingredients.

Start with ¼ cup per twenty pounds of body weight.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 224 ===
Pad Thai Topper

This Thai-inspired topper holds one of the secret ingredients to longevity:

resveratrol, a potent antioxidant that protects against cell damage.

½ cup sprouts of your choosing or 1 tablespoon sprouted peanuts

1 teaspoon fresh cilantro, chopped, or ½ teaspoon dried

1 egg, poached

Optional: lime squeeze as garnish

1. Sprinkle the sprouts or sprouted peanuts (chop for small dogs) and

cilantro over your dog’s meal, then place poached egg on top.

2. If desired, squeeze the lime over top to boost vitamin C. Mix well.

=== PAGE 225 ===
This topper is about eighty calories per serving, a respectable-sized

topper for dogs over fifty pounds. Medium-sized dogs can enjoy half

the recipe once a day or several times a week. One batch can easily

become four servings for small dogs and cats.

Prioritize Peanut Sprouts: Pets just love peanut sprouts for

their sweet and buttery flavor, and pet parents love them

because they are a rich source of polyphenols, including

resveratrol, the powerful antioxidant most famous for giving

red wine its color. Resveratrol is anti-inflammatory,

anticancer, boosts heart health, aids in improving alertness

and cognitive function, and reduces the risk for dementia.

Sprouted peanuts contain ninety times the amount of

resveratrol of wine!

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 226 ===
Tandoori Topper

=== PAGE 227 ===
With flavorful spices and yogurt to cut through the heat, this topper is

Indian cuisine at its best and a fun enrichment activity.

1 cup plain yogurt or cottage cheese

⅛ teaspoon ground cloves

⅛ teaspoon cinnamon, ground

⅛ teaspoon ginger, ground, or ¼ teaspoon fresh ginger, grated

⅛ teaspoon cumin

1. In a small bowl or glass storage container, mix all ingredients.

2. Use as a topper, smear onto a lick mat, or fill a bone or toy and freeze.

Feed one tablespoon per twenty pounds of body weight.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 228 ===
Fiber Smoothie

This recipe’s fiber-rich apples and pineapples (which also contain the

enzyme bromelain) aid digestion, bulk up stools, and provide anal gland

support to pets in need.

½ cup plain, unsweetened organic yogurt

½ cup unsweetened 100 percent pure pineapple juice (if your dog is

picky, use broth—see here)

1 tablespoon psyllium husk powder

1 small apple, with skin, cored, seeded, and chopped

Puree all ingredients in a blender or food processor.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 229 ===
Make Your Own Applesauce

It’s sweet and savory, made with bone broth instead of water.

6 apples, cored and chopped

¼ cup bone broth

1. Place ingredients in small saucepan.

2. Simmer on low heat for 30 minutes, or until apples are soft enough to

easily mash with a fork. If needed, add more broth or apples to reach

desired consistency.

3. Let cool and smear on a lick mat, use as a topper, or use in a recipe.

4. Store remaining applesauce in the refrigerator for up to a week.

Apples=Anal Gland Rescue: Your animal’s anal glands are

located on either side of his anus, and they release a small

amount of liquid every time he poops (providing a download

of personal biologic pheromone data, if you’re a fellow dog).

If they’re enlarged, impacted, or inflamed, apples—which are

a rich source of pectin (a soluble fiber)—paired with the

bulking power of psyllium husk and a dose of bromelain (the

anti-inflammatory proteolytic enzyme found in pineapple)

provide the perfect blend of ingredients for healthy anal gland

expression. Plus, even a single dose of a type of polyphenol in

apples, called B-type procyanidins, can activate the gut-brain

=== PAGE 230 ===
axis, which helps to improve cognitive function and reduce

the risk of cognitive decline.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 231 ===
Smart Spread

With fermented food and omega-rich seafood, this spreadable topper is

good for the gut and the brain.

1 cup cooked salmon (fresh or canned and packed in water, drained) or

other “clean” seafood (see here)

=== PAGE 232 ===
½ cup plain yogurt

½ cup cooked mushrooms or ¼ cup sprouts

4 tablespoons raw pumpkin seeds

Optional: 1–3 teaspoons DIY Vitamin/Mineral Greens Powder

In a blender or food processor, puree ingredients.

Offer one ounce as a topper or on a lick mat per ten pounds of body

weight per day. Or freeze in an ice cube tray or silicone mold for future

use.

Try Kefir: Don’t let yogurt be the only fermented food you

feed your pet. Kefir is yogurt’s runnier, tangier, and sourer

cousin, and it contains up to one thousand times more

beneficial bacteria than yogurt. Research shows dogs who are

fed kefir have a healthier gut within two weeks! Add one

tablespoon of kefir per ten pounds of body weight per day to

your dog’s food.

Enrichment Extends Lives: Chronic stress can cause a host

of health problems, from gastrointestinal illnesses to immune

dysfunction to depression to cardiovascular disease. Providing

enriching activities—like walking, playing with other animals,

or offering lick mats, toys, or a food-dispensing toy full of

healthy tidbits and toppers—can help combat stress-related

behaviors such as anxiety, depression, marking, aggression,

and antisocial behavior.

=== PAGE 233 ===
Don’t have a snuffle mat? Use a head of leafy lettuce!

Tucking a variety of small, healthy morsels between the

leaves gives your dog (or cat) an opportunity to exercise her

nose and brain as she finds each hidden prize.

It’s up to you to make wise decisions for your pet,

however. If you know your puppy will attempt to chew and

swallow pieces of a DIY enrichment opportunity (like an

eggshell carton), don’t set them up for failure (or injury). Only

offer food formats and food-dispensing devices that you know

your animal can enjoy safely, and in portions that make sense

for your animal (you can always limit enrichment sessions to

a few minutes, putting leftovers back in the fridge for another

session later). Always supervise your pets while they’re

enjoying food, treats, and toys so you can intervene if needed.

Slow down mealtime gobblers by dishing up dinner in a

muffin tin, or offer a buffet of healthy treats or toppers in each

well to nourish your dog’s body and mind.

=== PAGE 234 ===
OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 235 ===
Shrimp Whip

=== PAGE 236 ===
Shrimp is a great source of iodine, and it also contains a neuroprotective

antioxidant that gives shrimp its pink color: astaxanthin.

Yields approximately ⅔ cup

½ teaspoon gelatin

¼ cup broth, hot

½ cup cooked shrimp, minced fine (or canned)

1. Place the gelatin in a bowl.

2. Pour the hot broth over the gelatin and whisk to mix thoroughly.

3. Fold in the minced shrimp until fully combined.

4. Mixture will thicken as it cools. Whisk or puree when cool, prior to

serving.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 237 ===
The Ultimate 2.0 Turmeric Paste

=== PAGE 238 ===


=== PAGE 239 ===


=== PAGE 240 ===
iStock.com/Gulnar Akhmedova

This paste is rich in brain-boosting turmeric. Turmeric’s primary compound

is curcumin, which has been found to increase levels of brain-derived

neurotrophic factor (BDNF), a protein that supports the healthy function of

neurons.

Yields approximately 1½ cups

½ cup turmeric powder

1–2 cups filtered water, mushroom broth, or decaffeinated tea (see

suggestions here) for desired consistency

¼–⅓ cup coconut oil (or lard, grass-fed butter, avocado oil, or MCT

oil)

½ teaspoon freshly ground black pepper OR ground ginger

¼ cup mushroom powder

1. Add turmeric and water, broth, or tea to a small pot.

2. Whisk to mix thoroughly.

3. Simmer over low to medium heat for 7–10 minutes, whisking until

paste forms.

4. Turn off heat and add oil.

5. Add black pepper and mushroom powder. Whisk well.

Start with ¼ teaspoon and work up to ¼ teaspoon per ten pounds of

body weight.

=== PAGE 241 ===
OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 242 ===
Apoptosis Add-Ins (Curcumin Cream

Cheese)

This creamy topper is powerful magic for your pet’s brain, cells, and blood

sugar. Apoptosis is natural, programmed cell death—often used by the body

to prevent cancerous cell growth—and curcumin has been found to induce

it. Even more than turmeric, curcumin alone can also lower diabetes

markers. Because its powder comes in different strengths, we’ve

recommended a dose that will provide general health benefits but should

not be used as treatment for specific health conditions.

Yields approximately ½ cup

4 ounces cream cheese

1 teaspoon curcumin powder

1 teaspoon mushroom powder

=== PAGE 243 ===
¼ teaspoon ground ginger or freshly ground black pepper

Mix all ingredients until well combined.

Offer one teaspoon per ten pounds of body weight, mixed in food or on

a lick mat, per day.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 244 ===
DIY Vitamin/Mineral Greens Powder

Sometimes what’s good for your pet is also good for your wallet. You can

spend up to $100 on a container of powdered greens—or you can make

your own following this recipe. This DIY super greens powder is a great

way to use up greens and sneak more superfoods into your pet’s diet.

Yields approximately 4 tablespoons

4½ cups of greens (kale, spinach, or dandelion greens of your choice)

1. Preheat oven to its lowest setting.

2. Wash and dry greens thoroughly. Remove stems from kale leaves and

chop or rip leaves to a similar size. You can leave spinach as is.

3. Lay flat on a greased baking sheet, silicone baking mat, or parchment

paper and cook for 6–8 hours or until completely dry and crispy. Or

=== PAGE 245 ===
place on racks in a dehydrator for 6–8 hours at 125°F.

4. Blend or grind dried greens until they reach a powder consistency.

5. Store in an airtight container in a cool, dark place (we like the fridge).

Use powder within a month.

Add to meals or dust over a lick mat that’s been smeared with shrimp

whip, cottage cheese, or mashed sardines. Use ½ teaspoon for every ten

pounds of body weight.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 246 ===
DIY Lion’s Mane Mushroom Powder

Rodney’s dog, Shubie, hates mushrooms, so this recipe is one of Rodney’s

favorite ways to sneak a healthy dose of good-for-the-gut medicinal

=== PAGE 247 ===
mushrooms into her food.

Yields approximately ⅔ cup

4½ cups lion’s mane mushrooms

1. Preheat oven to 170°F.

2. Wash and dry mushrooms thoroughly.

3. Slice or pull apart into ⅛-inch pieces.

4. Place in a single layer on a greased baking sheet, silicone baking mat,

or parchment paper.

5. Prop open the oven door with a wooden spoon and bake 5 hours,

turning mushrooms over midway through the cooking time. Or, in a

dehydrator, place in a single layer on racks and dehydrate for 6 to 8

hours at 125°F or until completely dried and crispy. If you live in a

drier climate, you can also leave uncovered indoors and let dry about

six days or until completely dried and crispy.

6. Pulse in a blender or food processor to make powder.

7. Store in an airtight container in a dry, cool place (refrigerator works

well). Use up in a month.

Feed ½ teaspoon per ten pounds of body weight, dusted on food, mixed

in a topper, or dusted over a lick mat, per day.

Lion’s Mane Is Good for the Gut: Study after study shows

that this medicinal mushroom stimulates the production of

nerve cells, helps neurons regenerate, and reduces oxidative

stress. But these miraculous mushrooms are even better than

=== PAGE 248 ===
we originally thought. Elderly dogs fed lion’s mane

mushroom show a significantly better balance of beneficial

gut bacteria as compared to harmful bacteria, demonstrating

clearly that they can help regulate the gut microbial

community.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 249 ===
Gelatin, Gravies, Jellies, and Jigglers

=== PAGE 250 ===
Gelatin is the star in this section’s recipes, so it’s time to think of it

as something more than an ingredient in a sugary dessert. In fact,

it’s a versatile thickener (the more gelatin you add, the firmer your

creation will be) and benefits the joints, hair, skin, and more.

Gelatin is nature’s richest source of the amino acid glycine,

which detoxifies environmental pollutants like glyphosate. It also

makes mammals feel full, so it’s a satisfying and nutritious

ingredient for all sorts of DIY treats. Gelatin is great for the gut,

strengthening the lining of the digestive system by protecting its

gastric mucus. Gelatin also improves the secretion of certain

stomach acids, which aids digestion, and absorbs water, which

keeps fluid and waste products moving along through the digestive

tract. Gelatin also supports cartilage health, can reduce joint pain,

and even helps with hair growth!

You can find plain gelatin powder in your grocery store, though

we prefer grass-fed, pasture-raised beef gelatin from health food

stores or online. Unless we indicate otherwise, store your gelatin,

gravies, jellies, and jigglers in a sealed container in the refrigerator

for three days or the freezer for up to three months. Slice gelatin

treats into sizes your pet can safely consume.

One tablespoon of plain gelatin (about seven grams) contains

approximately twenty-four calories and is fat-free, making it

awesome for everyone. Match the gelatin consistency and add-ins

to what’s best for your beast.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 251 ===
How to Make the Perfect Gelatin

Consistency

=== PAGE 252 ===
You can customize the density of gelatin treats by adjusting the amount of

gelatin. If you have a dog who needs a softer bone, use less. The more

gelatin you add, the firmer the treat will be.

Gelatin Gravy

=== PAGE 253 ===
Terrific as a topper

Yields ½ cup

½ teaspoon gelatin in ½ cup broth or tea

Gelatin Jelly

Great for a food topper or lick mat

Yields ½ cup

1 rounded teaspoon gelatin in ½ cup broth or tea

Gelatin Jiggler

Makes an excellent pill pouch

Yield depends on size of mold

1 tablespoon gelatin in ½ cup broth or tea

Gelatin Tennis Ball

An extra-squishy reward

Yields one ball

4 tablespoons gelatin in 1 cup broth or tea

Use silicone ball ice cube molds or metal “bath bomb” molds.

Gelatin Frisbee

A firm treat that’s great for enrichment Use a pie dish to create the Frisbee

shape.

Yields one Frisbee

=== PAGE 254 ===
6–8 tablespoons gelatin in 1 cup broth or tea

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 255 ===
Gelatin Bones (extra firm)

Gel-O Bones can provide extended enrichment for professional lickers.

Stuff them—as here—with complete and balanced food, toppers, or peanut

butter. You can also top them with whatever your dog desires—as shown

below—then freeze them to make soothing and satisfying teething toys for

puppies or a refreshing summertime treat.

Yield depends on size of bone molds

8–12 tablespoons (½–¾ cup) gelatin in 1 cup broth or tea (depending

on how hard you want the bone to be)

1. For all gelatin: mix broth or tea and gelatin until dissolved. Let sit until

mixture thickens to a jelly consistency. Pour into greased mold or

storage container (we like coconut or avocado oil) and refrigerate for 3

=== PAGE 256 ===
hours. If the mold doesn’t have a bottom (like a cookie cutter), press it

firmly while filling. Add chopped tidbits or toppers, if desired.

2. For harder bones that use more gelatin, the mixture will be very thick.

We use a whisk to mix. Moisten fingers and press mixture into mold.

3. Refrigerate extras for up to a week or freeze for later use. Thaw before

feeding.

4. Always supervise while enjoying. Do not offer to dogs that try to

swallow everything whole, or chop into bite-sized pieces prior to

feeding, treating, or training.

Gelatin Can Vary: Gelatin consistency can depend on the

brand, whether you choose plain, multipurpose gelatin or beef

gelatin powder, and what kind of liquid (water, tea, broth) you

use to make it. Some gelatin brands also require you to use

room temperature liquid, while others call for hot. Finally,

some gelatin may harden faster than others—or when smaller

quantities of powder are used. Check labels, experiment with

the brand you choose, start with a small amount, and increase

as needed.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 257 ===
Gut Gummies

=== PAGE 258 ===


=== PAGE 259 ===


=== PAGE 260 ===
Gelatin powder (See gelatin ratio recipes for desired consistency.

Double the amount of gelatin if using fresh ginger.)

1 tablespoon slippery elm powder or marshmallow root powder

½ teaspoon dried ginger (or 1 teaspoon fresh ginger)

Optional: 1 tablespoon activated charcoal powder (excellent for pets

with diarrhea)

Optional: 1 probiotic capsule or ⅛ cup plain kefir

2 cups hot broth or tea of your choice (see here for more on tea)

Optional: 1 teaspoon Manuka honey or royal jelly

Optional: 1 tablespoon inner leaf aloe juice

1. Combine all dry ingredients (except probiotic capsule) in a large bowl.

2. Carefully whisk in hot broth or tea to dissolve all powders. Decrease

the amount of liquid you use by equal amount of optional liquids used

(kefir, honey, jelly, aloe juice).

3. Let cool and add probiotics (removing the capsule), honey, jelly, juice,

kefir, if using. Stir to fully combine.

4. Refrigerate 3 hours to allow the gelatin to set.

Gelatin versus Collagen: Collagen and gelatin have similar

chemical structures, but they differ in their properties and

uses. Collagen is an abundant, naturally occurring protein that

provides structural support for skin, bones, cartilage, and

tendons. Gelatin is derived from collagen by a process that

breaks down the long collagen fibers into shorter, more

soluble protein molecules, resulting in a gel-like substance.

=== PAGE 261 ===
OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 262 ===
Edible Tennis Balls

=== PAGE 263 ===
For the ultimate enrichment game, toss an edible tennis ball filled with dog-

friendly foods from the fridge. When playtime is over, your dog can eat his

way to the healthy goodies suspended inside.

Yields one 1-cup ball or two ½-cup balls

Coconut or avocado oil

½ cup diced add-ins of choice: fruits, vegetables, meats, fish, or more,

if desired (you can also make plain broth or tea balls)

4 tablespoons gelatin powder

1 cup broth or tea

1. Lightly grease both halves of a ball mold with coconut or avocado oil.

2. Place ¼ cup of the add-ins in each half of the mold.

3. In separate bowl, sprinkle gelatin powder over broth or tea and stir to

dissolve. Let sit until it starts to thicken.

4. Pour liquid-gelatin mixture into each ball mold half, filling to rim.

5. Let sit until the mixture becomes the consistency of thick jelly, and

won’t run out of molds, then press one ball half on top of the other.

Wipe away the excess.

6. Refrigerate 3 hours or until firm.

7. Gently remove ball from mold.

=== PAGE 264 ===
OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 265 ===
Mix-and-Match Molds

=== PAGE 266 ===
The options for gelatin are truly limitless. While we purchased metal “bath

bomb” molds and silicone ice cube ball molds online to make our “edible

tennis ball” shape, you can customize your gelatin creation to the

kitchenware you have on hand and your dog’s needs.

Choose any clean vessel that holds liquids (we’ve used mini loaf pans,

coffee mugs, small serving bowls, and muffin tins to make gelatin treats).

Just make sure it fits in your fridge. You can add in new foods you want to

highlight or introduce, from berries and raw seeds or nuts you need to use

up, to vegetable trimmings and last night’s healthy dinner leftovers. Dice

add-ins to an appropriate size for your pup. Plain broth, with a pinch of sea

salt, works just fine, too.

Here, we use the same ratios as in the tennis balls. Feel free to size these

ingredients up or down, depending on the size of the mold you are filling.

Also note that some add-ins may require additional gelatin to solidify. If

your concoction is too jiggly, try doubling the gelatin next time—and

spread the jelly on a lick mat!

Coconut or avocado oil

¼–½ cup veggie, fruit, or meat add-ins (can also use broth or tea

alone)

4 tablespoons gelatin powder makes extra-firm treats; use 3

tablespoons for softer, more jiggly texture

1 cup broth or tea (see here for inspiration)

Optional: 1 tablespoon plain yogurt or kefir

1. Lightly oil your mold with coconut or avocado oil.

2. Place your add-ins in the mold.

3. In a separate bowl, sprinkle the gelatin powder over the broth or tea

(plus optional yogurt or kefir, if desired) and stir to dissolve (will form

a jelly-like consistency).

4. Pour the gelatin mixture over the fruit/veggie/meat add-ins in the

mold.

=== PAGE 267 ===
5. If using cookie cutter–type molds, line a baking tray with parchment

paper and press firmly on mold while filling. Refrigerate for 4 hours,

or until set. Remove from mold and serve (with supervision).

How to Unstick Gelatin: If you struggle to get your gelatin

creation out of a mold, try soaking it in hot water. That will

help release the sticky gelatin from the sides.

=== PAGE 268 ===
OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 269 ===
Forever Fluids

=== PAGE 270 ===
What do humans eat when they’re sick or seeking comfort?

Chicken soup, tea, smoothies, and nutrient-dense juices. Fluids heal

and hydrate, and pets need them as much as we do. These Forever

Fluids are concentrated medicinal infusions, packed with nutrients

and compounds that are easily absorbed, which increases their

=== PAGE 271 ===
bioavailability. They’re also inexpensive ways to supercharge your

pets’ meals with longevity-boosting ingredients.

Feed your pet one to two ounces (two to four tablespoons for

every ten pounds of body weight) to start. Big batches or leftovers

can be stored in the refrigerator for up to five days or the freezer

for three months (if you choose, you can portion into ice cube

trays).

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 272 ===
Root Vegetable Super Stew

=== PAGE 273 ===
Kuku Ruza/Shutterstock, Inc.; VECTOR_X/Shutterstock, Inc.;

Vector/Shutterstock, Inc.

This nutrient-dense super stew contains turnips, whose compound

sulforaphane activates genes responsible for fighting inflammation.

=== PAGE 274 ===
Sulforaphanes also slow the rate of cancer and cardiovascular biomarkers,

reduce inflammation, and remove toxins from the body.

Serve this as a chunky soup or puree it into a topper.

Yields 6–8 cups

1 medium turnip, peeled and diced into ½- to 1-inch cubes

1 medium parsnip, peeled and diced into ½- to 1-inch cubes

1 small rutabaga, peeled and diced into ½- to 1-inch cubes

2–3 Jerusalem artichokes, diced into ½- to 1-inch cubes

1 daikon, peeled and diced into ½- to 1-inch cubes

1 medium or 6–8 baby carrots, sliced into ½-inch coins

1 large beet, peeled and diced into ½- to 1-inch cubes

1 small sweet potato, diced into ½- to 1-inch cubes

4–8 cups broth (bone, chicken, beef, mushroom, etc.), or as much as

needed to cover vegetables

Optional: herbal tea bag (see here for inspirations), 2 teaspoons fresh

or 1 teaspoon dried herbs (see here), added while cooling

1. Place all vegetables in large soup pot, then pour in 4 cups broth. Add

more broth if vegetables are not covered.

2. Bring to a boil, then lower heat and simmer 30 minutes or until

veggies are tender.

3. Add 1–2 tea bags of choice while stew cools, along with fresh or dried

herbs.

4. Remove tea bags when broth is cool. Puree to smooth consistency if

desired.

5. Slow cooker method: Place vegetables and broth in Crock-Pot, cook on

low for 8 hours, then add tea and herbs once heat is turned off.

=== PAGE 275 ===
Remove tea bags when broth is cool.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 276 ===
Best Bone Broth

Bone broth is good health in a pot, providing collagen for joint support and

gut health. Served warm as a topper or on its own like a soup, bone broth is

comforting, healing, and always delicious.

Yields approximately 8 cups

3 pounds any bones (chicken, marrow, knuckle/joint bones, etc.)

=== PAGE 277 ===
8–10 cups filtered water

2 tablespoons apple cider vinegar

Optional for joint support: decaf green tea or turmeric

Optional: piece of raw backstrap or joint bones (these contain more

collagen, so they create extra-gooey, gelatinous broth, especially beef

tendon)

Optional: chicken or duck feet (these are also rich in collagen and will

create a gelatinous broth)

1. Place bones in slow cooker. Add backstrap or feet if using. Add

enough filtered water to just cover contents by ½ to 1 inch. Add apple

cider vinegar.

2. Cook on medium-high heat for one hour then reduce to low. Keep a

very gentle boil where the surface of the liquid is moving with only

occasional small bubbles appearing. (If cooking low and slow, there

should be minimal evaporation. If liquid is evaporating, add more

water and decrease cooking temperature.)

3. Let cool, discard bones, and strain through fine mesh strainer into

clean glass containers (to remove small, splintered bones).

4. Skim and discard fat before freezing or serving.

Slow cooker cooking times:

Chicken bones: 24 hours

Dense bones (beef, bison, lamb): 48 hours

Bone Broth Heals: Bone broth builds up the immune system

and helps fight ulcerative colitis by decreasing the expression

of pro-inflammatory cytokines (proteins that control immune

=== PAGE 278 ===
and blood cell growth) and stimulating the expression of anti-

inflammatory cytokines in animal models.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 279 ===
Building Broths for Health

There are endless variations of delicious and nutritious broths you can

create, so we’ve made it easy here by providing three recipes that treat

common conditions your pet may experience. The steps to build each are

the same, though the ingredients differ.

Yields 6–10 cups

Steps to Build Your Broth

1. Choose a recipe.

2. Finely chop veggies and herbs.

3. Add all ingredients to a stockpot filled with 3 quarts filtered water.

4. Cover and simmer on low heat, just below boiling, for 1 hour, stirring

occasionally.

5. Turn off heat and add tea bags, if desired. Let cool. Skim off fat if you

want low-fat broth.

6. Remove any tea bags and bones and strain and compost or discard

solids. Pour liquid into glass storage container and store, refrigerated,

for up to 5 days, or freeze for up to 3 months for later use (1-ounce ice

cube trays work well).

7. Thaw and use to reconstitute freeze-dried or dehydrated pet food, add

to dry food as a topper, freeze on a lick mat, or substitute for any

recipe that calls for water.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 280 ===
Belly-Soothing Broth

=== PAGE 281 ===
1 pound fresh or leftover poultry, lamb or venison bones, or beef

knuckle bone (in most grocery stores labeled as “soup bones”)

½ fennel bulb (prevents GI ulcers)

2-inch piece of ginger root (reduces acid reflux and nausea, improves

GI motility)

2-inch piece of turmeric root (anti-inflammatory)

1 cup dandelion greens or Jerusalem artichokes (source of inulin)

1 teaspoon ground cumin (increases digestive enzyme activity and

eases gas)

Optional: finely chopped fresh or dried herbs of your choosing (if you

don’t have fresh herbs, you can swap for two tea bags containing the

same herbs):

1 teaspoon lemon balm (regulates motility and reduces gas)

1 teaspoon peppermint (soothes indigestion)

1 teaspoon chamomile (antispasmodic)

To cook, follow steps above.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 282 ===
Brain-Building Broth

=== PAGE 283 ===
1 cup ground fresh salmon (reduces risk of neurological inflammation)

1 tablespoon rosemary (protects against cognitive decline)

=== PAGE 284 ===
1 tablespoon sage (neuroprotective)

1 cinnamon stick or 1 teaspoon ground cinnamon (improves cognitive

performance)

1 teaspoon oregano (enhances feeling of mental well-being)

Optional: finely chopped fresh or dried herbs of your choosing (if you

don’t have fresh herbs, you can swap for two tea bags containing the

same herbs):

Pinch of saffron (protects the brain from neurotoxins)

Pinch of finely ground black pepper (slows neurodegeneration)

Two decaf green tea bags (protects against oxidation)

To cook, follow steps above.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 285 ===
Immune Broth

=== PAGE 286 ===
1 beef marrow bone (or 3 pieces of oxtail from grocery store)

1 cup reishi mushrooms (regulates the immune system)

1 tablespoon cilantro (antimicrobial, anti-inflammatory)

1 tablespoon curly parsley (assists in detoxification)

1 tablespoon oregano (antifungal benefits)

2 cloves fresh garlic (antimicrobial, immune-modulating)

Optional: finely chopped fresh or dried herbs of your choosing (if you

don’t have fresh herbs, you can swap for two tea bags containing the

same herbs):

2×2-inch piece of chaga mushroom

2 tablespoons manuka honey (stir in after broth is done

simmering and removed from heat)

To cook, follow steps above.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 287 ===
Leftover Longevity Broth

=== PAGE 288 ===
Don’t toss out the excess bits and pieces you cut from your vegetables.

Make this incredibly easy longevity-boosting broth instead.

Saved veggie peels, green tops, trimmed ends, or stalks

1. Place ingredients in large soup pot.

2. Cover with filtered water.

3. Bring to boil, then simmer for 30 minutes.

4. Optional: Add tea bag of your choosing (see here for ideas) once

removed from heat to supercharge the broth. Remove tea bag when

broth is cool.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 289 ===
Quick and Easy Low-Histamine Bone

Broth

Tatiana Kuklina/Shutterstock, Inc.

Histamine is a compound naturally produced by immune cells in response

to an allergic trigger, and if your dog is itchy, irritated, or scratching at their

goopy eyes, they’re probably full of it. Bones are full of it, too, and the

longer you cook them, the more histamine is released from the marrow. We

cook our bone broth for only a few hours to keep the levels low, in case

your dog might be histamine-intolerant.

1 tablespoon unfiltered raw apple cider vinegar

=== PAGE 290 ===
½ cup fresh cilantro, chopped

½ cup fresh medicinal mushrooms, chopped

Whole chicken, or just the leftover carcass (if chicken has been

prepared without onion), or raw soup bones of your choice

½ cup cruciferous veggies of your choice (Brussels sprouts, kale,

cabbage, or more), chopped

½ cup fresh parsley, chopped

4 cloves raw garlic, chopped

1 teaspoon Himalayan salt

Optional: 4 tea bags (decaffeinated green or black tea, mushroom tea

including chaga and reishi, chamomile, valerian, lavender, holy basil,

dandelion, oregano leaf, or others)

1. Place the chicken/carcass in a large pot and add enough pure filtered

water to completely cover. Add the rest of the ingredients.

2. Cover the pot and simmer over low heat for 4 hours.

3. Turn off the heat and add 4 tea bags if desired.

4. Steep the tea bags for 10 minutes, then remove the bags from the pot.

5. Discard bones, first removing any remaining meat (put the meat back

in the broth).

6. Puree the meat, veggies, and broth to a gravy-like consistency using an

immersion blender. A regular blender will also work, but process in

batches to fit the blender, once the broth is cool enough to safely

handle.

7. Freeze the broth in individual portions, such as in ice cube trays or

silicone molds.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 291 ===
Super-Immune Mushroom Broth

Full of immune-boosting beta-glucans, mushroom broth is liquid gold for

the immune system. We like using ground turmeric and ginger in this

recipe, but add any spices you choose—or none at all.

2 cups medicinal mushrooms, sliced

1 tablespoon unsalted butter

6 cups filtered water, broth, or herbal tea

=== PAGE 292 ===
Optional: 1 tablespoon herbs or spices (choose based on your pet’s

health and conditions—see here)

1. Sauté mushrooms in butter over low heat until soft.

2. Add filtered water, broth, or tea.

3. Add herbs or spices, if desired.

4. Simmer for 3–5 minutes.

5. Let cool until able to handle.

6. Puree using an immersion blender, or in a blender (in batches if

necessary).

7. May be served warm or cool.

Spotlight on Shiitakes: While you can use any type of

mushroom in this recipe, we love shiitakes! This magnificent

mushroom contains a carbohydrate called lentinan that can

effectively treat gastric cancer, and, in fact, it’s been approved

for use as treatment for gastric cancer patients in Japan.

Lentinan also reduces the cell damage done by the

environmental toxin benzy(a)pyrene (found in car exhaust,

smoke, and other burning fuels), which can cause skin,

bladder, and lung cancer in humans and animals.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 293 ===
Gingermeric Gravy

=== PAGE 294 ===
This super-fragrant gravy is brain-boosting, gut-soothing, and—because it

contains cinnamon—heart-healthy. Most of us don’t think about feeding our

dogs cinnamon, but studies show that dogs given cinnamon see improved

heart performance and blood pressure—key measures of heart health.

1 teaspoon turmeric root powder

½ teaspoon ginger

1 tablespoon coconut or olive oil

Dash ground cinnamon

⅓ cup hot filtered water, hot broth, or tea

1. Mix first four ingredients in a bowl or cup.

2. Add hot liquid to mixture, stir, and let cool.

Serving Suggestion: Add a tablespoon per twenty pounds of body

weight to food once a day or split between daily feedings.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 295 ===
Teas, Straight Up

=== PAGE 296 ===
In theory, animals have been consuming tea for millennia; every time a leaf

falls off a plant or tree and lands in a puddle of water, the outcome is

essentially tea. Cooled teas are an economical and powerful way to deliver

a plant’s best medicinal properties directly to your dog or cat. Teas make

inexpensive, polyphenol-rich toppers (“gravies”) that infuse antioxidants

and bioactive plant chemicals into every meal.

Types of Teas

Decaf green and black tea: Loaded with bioactive compounds

that have powerful anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, and pro-

immune effects. Green tea has long been documented to improve

brain function, protect against cancer, and lower risk of heart

disease. Both green and black tea are a rich source of theaflavins, a

group of antioxidant molecules that are created from catechins,

and both contain the calming amino acid L-theanine, which

alleviates stress in the body.

Herbal tea: Made from a variety of different herbs, these brews

are all naturally decaffeinated and can benefit the body and mind

in many ways, depending on the medicinal properties of the herb.

In addition to popular teas you can find at your local health food

store, including rooibos (African red tea), rose hip, passionflower,

and valerian (“sleepy time”) teas, pets can also enjoy fresh herbal

infusions from your garden, including catnip, peppermint,

hibiscus, sage, echinacea, lemon verbena, lemon balm,

lemongrass, linden flower, calendula, basil, and fennel.

Bring 8 ounces of filtered water to a near boil and add teas. Steep

for 5–10 minutes (start with shorter amounts of time for milder

teas). Here are some of our favorite herbal blends:

Calming Tea

½ teaspoon dried chamomile

=== PAGE 297 ===
½ teaspoon dried holy basil (tulsi)

½ teaspoon dried lemon balm

Detox Tea

½ teaspoon dried dandelion (all parts)

½ teaspoon dried burdock root

½ teaspoon dried chicory root

Tummy Tea

½ teaspoon dried peppermint leaves

½ teaspoon dried fennel seeds, lightly crushed

½ teaspoon dried marshmallow root (Althaea officinalis)

Optional: 1/16 teaspoon ground ginger or two thin-sliced pieces of fresh

ginger

Cognition Tea

½ teaspoon dried sage or dried rosemary

½ teaspoon dried hibiscus flowers (not for pregnant animals)

½ teaspoon turmeric powder

Optional: 1 cinnamon stick

Serving Suggestion: one to two ounces of tea for every ten pounds of

body weight per day

We also love these dandelion teas, suggested by Rita Hogan,

Canine Herbalist:

=== PAGE 298 ===
Fresh Dandelion Leaf or Flower Tea

8 ounces water

2 tablespoons fresh dandelion leaves or flowers

Bring water to a near boil.

Add dandelions.

Steep for 5–10 minutes.

Dried Dandelion Leaf or Flower Tea

8 ounces water

1½ tablespoons dried dandelion leaves or flowers

Bring water to a near boil.

Add dandelions.

Steep for 10–15 minutes.

Fresh Dandelion Root Tea

2 cups water

2 tablespoons fresh dandelion root, chopped

Bring water to a boil.

Add dandelion roots.

Lower heat and simmer for 30 minutes.

Dried Dandelion Root Tea

2 cups water

=== PAGE 299 ===
1 tablespoon dried dandelion root, chopped

Bring water to a boil in a pan.

Add dandelion roots.

Lower heat and simmer for 30 minutes.

Serving Suggestions:

Leaf or Flower Tea: ¼ cup for every ten pounds

Root Tea: ⅛ cup for every ten pounds

Give twice daily over food.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 300 ===
Chapter 4

Complete and Balanced Meals

Making your own dog or cat food is the ultimate way to know

exactly what your beloved is eating. You know what day the food

was made, what ingredients you used, and, most important, that

they’re getting top-notch nutrition.

Our recommendation has been—and will always be—to feed as

much fresh food as your schedule and budget allow. Whether you

decide to make all your pet’s meals, or just keep some backup

meals in the freezer, we’ve made these recipes as flexible as

possible, offering dozens of nutritionally complete meal options

with endless possibilities for nutrient diversification. You can use

these complete and balanced recipes as meal toppers to supercharge

dry food, mix them in as part of your animals’ daily food intake,

feed a fresh meal a few times a week, or completely switch to all

fresh food. No matter what you choose, our goal is to inspire you in

the kitchen and give your pet nourishing, home-cooked meals they

will love.

How Our Complete and Balanced Recipes Are

Different

The number one reason veterinarians dissuade pet owners from

feeding homemade diets is that most people do not follow well-

=== PAGE 301 ===
formulated recipes that ensure their animals consume the daily

minimum (and preferably optimal) nutritional requirements. Our

complete and balanced recipes meet pets’ needs, complying with

both US and European pet food nutrition requirements (except

where noted in adult feline diets, to minimize iodine and

phosphorus levels).

Our goal is to provide straightforward and easy-to-follow meals

that can be fed gently cooked, raw, supplemented, and using whole

foods (meaning specific food ingredients take the place of vitamin

and mineral supplements). We also offer many fruit and veggie

combinations, not to overwhelm you, but to inspire you! The more

nutritional diversity you can introduce to your animal’s bowl, the

healthier their gut and body will be. Here’s the proof: researchers

from the landmark American Gut Project discovered that

individuals who consume more than thirty plant foods per week

have a more diverse microbiome than those who eat fewer than ten.

(Just remember to introduce new foods at a pace that doesn’t cause

gastrointestinal stress.)

The nutritionally complete and balanced meals in these pages

are different than other homemade recipes you may have followed

because they’re formulated for various activity levels. For example,

a highly active ten-pound dog needs more calories than a sedentary,

inactive ten-pound dog—but not more vitamins and minerals. Our

recipes also account for life stages, including recipes for the

specific growth phases of puppies and kittens. We want to provide

the ideal nutrition for pets at all stages of their lives. However, we

know that printing all four hundred–plus variations of these recipes

isn’t possible or even needed, so many recipes are available at our

website. If you love the look of a certain recipe, but it’s formulated

for puppies and you have an inactive couch potato senior dog or a

cat, you can visit www.foreverrecipes.com to find the recipe

variation that’s right for your pet.

=== PAGE 302 ===
Scan this code or visit www.foreverrecipes.com to unlock

over 400 variations of the complete and balanced meals

featured in this chapter.

How the Recipes and Feeding Instructions Were

Formulated

You can skip this part unless you’re into geeky formulation details.

These recipes meet the latest criteria for recommended

allowances from FEDIAF. These recommended allowances are for

growing and adult dogs and cats, meet a metabolic basis for

specific activity levels and calorie consumption, and do not exceed

extrapolated FEDIAF maximum nutrient requirements on a

metabolic basis per day.

The formulation software we used to create these recipes is the

ADF, which combines USDA and verified international food data

to build a comprehensive nutritional database of ingredients, in

collaboration with practicing veterinarians, board-certified

=== PAGE 303 ===
veterinary nutritionists, pet food producers, and other industry

professionals using up-to-date FEDIAF and AAFCO (Association

of American Feed Control Officials) guidelines. We used 2021

FEDIAF guidelines for these recipes. All recipes also meet 2021

AAFCO guidelines, excluding phosphorus for adult cats (opting for

FEDIAF’s lower requirements). We used the lowest iodine

requirements (AAFCO) for all adult cat recipes.

All recipes were formulated in Atwater, on a caloric basis (not

dry matter), using the following metabolic multipliers (K factors):

110 for adult dogs, 85 for less active dogs. Puppy feeding

directions based on NRC 2006, page 38–39 and Table 15–2, using

K factors of 210 (early growth), 175 (mid growth), and 140 (late

growth). Cat and kitten feeding instructions based on FEDIAF

table VII-9, VII-10. Cat K factors: 52 (less active), 75 (indoor

adult), 100 (outdoor adult), 169 (kitten early growth), 141 (kitten

mid growth), 113 (kitten late growth). Nutrient losses during

cooking were accounted for using USDA retention values. To see

more formulation details, visit www.foreverdog.com.

Feeding for Life Stages and Activity Levels

Our life stage categories include Canine Growth, Adult Canine,

Adult Canine Less Active, Kitten Growth, Adult Cat, and Adult Cat

Less Active. To determine which recipes to feed your pet, choose

which life stage and activity level best suits your pet:

Canine Growth recipes are formulated to meet the nutritional

requirements of puppies (immature dogs that are still growing).

Our growth diets are appropriate for all breeds, including large and

giant breed puppies. You’ll alter the amount of food you feed to

your puppy during early, mid, and late growth phases to account

=== PAGE 304 ===
for their ongoing development, as noted in the feeding instructions

found here.

Adult Canine recipes are best suited for dogs that get 1–3 hours

of daily, active movement. Examples include brisk walks for at

least an hour a day, jogging or hiking with a human several times a

week, ongoing interaction/play with another dog or kids in the

house, being outside several hours a day in cold climates, and

digging or fence-running for part of the day. Follow “Active Dog”

feeding instructions. If you have a highly active dog (one that

spends all day moving and running), use Active Adult Dog recipes

and “Active Dog” feeding instructions, and if needed, increase the

amount you feed to maintain a healthy body condition.

Adult Canine Less Active recipes are for dogs that get less than

an hour of exercise a day (i.e., slow walks around the

neighborhood), are sedentary, or are older and prefer resting to

being active around the house and backyard. Less active adult dog

owners should follow the “Less Active” feeding instructions.

Kitten Growth recipes meet the nutritional requirements of

kittens (immature cats that are still growing) and are appropriate

for all breeds. You’ll alter the amount of food you feed to your

kitten during early, mid, and late growth phases to account for

their ongoing development, as noted in the feeding instructions

here.

Adult Cat recipes meet European standards for phosphorus and

US standards for iodine. Because adult cats do best with the lowest

intake of these minerals over time, we chose the lowest minimum

requirements for both. If you have an outdoor cat or an active

indoor/outdoor cat, follow the Adult Cat recipes and use the

“Adult Cat, Outdoor” feeding instructions, and if needed, increase

the amount you feed to maintain a healthy body condition during

colder months.

Adult Cats Less Active get less than an hour of engaged play or

exercise a day. These cats may also be older and prefer resting or

=== PAGE 305 ===
sleeping most of the day. Follow the “Less Active” feeding

instructions.

A Pound of Feathers vs. a Pound of Bricks: Each recipe

contains ingredients that have different calories and weigh

different amounts, which is why the volume of food you’ll

give your pet is different for each recipe. You’ll only need to

calculate the amount to feed your animal once, per recipe,

unless their activity level or weight changes.

=== PAGE 306 ===
Karen met Susan Recker on the first day of veterinary school

in 1993, and they’ve been best friends ever since. Susan was

instrumental in creating the diversified themes and food

profiles in the Complete and Balanced recipes. Dr. Recker’s

lifelong loves are family, animals, and food (she’s a fantastic

chef). She believes food can be powerful medicine, and her

ability to create delicious and nutritious meal plans and

recipes has been invaluable to her clients and patients (as well

as her friends and family). In addition to working as a small

=== PAGE 307 ===
animal clinician and in academia, she also helps veterinarians

learn how to formulate nutritionally complete diets using the

Animal Diet Formulator (ADF), arguably the most extensive

international food ingredient database and comprehensive pet

food formulation tool in the world.

Steve Brown has been formulating nutritionally complete

meat-based dog and cat foods for thirty years, and he played a

central role in creating these recipes. In 1999, he introduced a

new pet food category to the US market: nutritionally

balanced, minimally processed fresh food diets, which has

quickly become one of the fastest-growing segments of the

pet food industry. He went on to develop the Animal Diet

Formulator, or ADF, which we used to formulate these

recipes.

How Much Food Should I Feed my Pet?

=== PAGE 308 ===
To calculate how much food to feed per day, follow these steps:

1. Determine what life stage and activity category they fit into (see here).

2. Weigh them.

3. Refer to the following Feeding Instruction Charts to see how many

calories they need per day.

4. Write that number down and save it.

5. When you make a Complete and Balanced recipe, notice that it lists

the number of calories per ounce. To calculate how many ounces of

food to feed your pet, divide the calories your animal needs per day by

the number of calories per ounce of food. For example, a less active

thirty-pound (13.6kg) dog needs 603 calories a day, according to the

chart. The Argentinian Beef with Chimichurri recipe contains 44

calories per ounce.

603 ÷ 44 calories = 13.7 ounces of food per day

6. Spread those ounces and calories across a day. For most pets, that will

be 1–2 meals per day, and for puppies, it may be 3. Many cats like to

eat their calories over 6–8 smaller meals.

=== PAGE 309 ===
APPROXIMATE CALORIC REQUIREMENTS FOR ADULT

CANINES, BASED ON ACTIVITY LEVEL

ADULT CANINE, LESS ACTIVE

Canine weight, lbs Canine weight, kg Calories per day

3 1.4 107

5 2.3 157

10 4.5 264

15 6.8 358

20 9.1 445

30 13.6 603

40 18.2 748

60 27.2 1014

80 36.3 1260

100 45.4 1490

120 54.5 1700

=== PAGE 310 ===
ADULT CANINE, ACTIVE

Canine weight, lbs Canine weight, kg Calories per day

3 1.4 139

5 2.3 203

10 4.5 342

15 6.8 464

20 9.1 575

30 13.6 780

40 18.2 968

60 27.2 1312

80 36.3 1625

100 45.4 1925

120 54.5 2200

APPROXIMATE CALORIC REQUIREMENTS FOR PUPPIES,

BASED ON GROWTH AND DEVELOPMENT

PUPPY, EARLY GROWTH

(Less Than 50 Percent of Adult Weight)

Puppy weight, lbs Puppy weight, kg Calories per day

1 0.45 116

3 1.4 265

5 2.3 388

10 4.5 653

15 6.8 885

20 9.1 1098

30 13.6 1490

40 18.2 1847

60 27.2 2500

80 36.3 3100

100 45.4 3675

120 54.5 4200

=== PAGE 311 ===
PUPPY, MID GROWTH

(50–80 Percent of Adult Weight)

Puppy weight, lbs Puppy weight, kg Calories per day

1 0.45 97

3 1.4 221

5 2.3 324

10 4.5 544

15 6.8 738

20 9.1 915

30 13.6 1240

40 18.2 1540

60 27.2 2090

80 36.3 2590

100 45.4 3060

120 54.5 3500

PUPPY, LATE GROWTH

(80+ Percent of Adult Weight)

Puppy weight, lbs Puppy weight, kg Calories per day

1 0.45 77

3 1.4 177

5 2.3 259

10 4.5 435

15 6.8 590

20 9.1 732

30 13.6 933

40 18.2 1232

60 27.2 1670

80 36.3 2070

100 45.4 2450

120 54.5 2800

=== PAGE 312 ===
APPROXIMATE CALORIES PER DAY NEEDED FOR ADULT

CATS, BASED ON ACTIVITY LEVEL

ADULT CAT, INDOOR

(Less Active)

Cat weight, lbs Cat weight, kg Calories per day

3 1.4 64

5 2.3 90

7 3.2 113

9 4.1 134

11 5.0 153

13 5.9 171

15 6.8 188

18 8.2 213

ADULT CAT, INDOOR

(Active)

Cat weight, lbs Cat weight, kg Calories per day

3 1.4 92

5 2.3 130

7 3.2 163

9 4.1 193

11 5.0 220

13 5.9 247

15 6.8 271

18 8.2 305

ADULT CAT, OUTDOOR

(Highly Active)

Cat weight, lbs Cat weight, kg Calories per day

3 1.4 123

5 2.3 173

7 3.2 217

=== PAGE 313 ===
9 4.1 257

11 5.0 294

13 5.9 329

15 6.8 362

18 8.2 410

APPROXIMATE CALORIC REQUIREMENTS FOR KITTENS,

BASED ON GROWTH AND DEVELOPMENT

KITTEN, EARLY GROWTH

(Up to 4 Months)

Kitten weight, lbs Kitten weight, kg Calories per day

1 0.45 100

3 1.4 208

5 2.3 293

7 3.2 366

9 4.1 434

11 5.0 496

15 6.8 610

KITTEN, MID GROWTH

(4–9 Months)

Kitten weight, lbs Kitten weight, kg Calories per day

1 0.45 82

3 1.4 173

5 2.3 244

7 3.2 305

9 4.1 360

11 5.0 413

15 6.8 510

KITTEN, LATE GROWTH

(9–12 Months)

=== PAGE 314 ===
Kitten weight, lbs Kitten weight, kg Calories per day

1 0.45 66

3 1.4 138

5 2.3 195

7 3.2 244

9 4.1 290

11 5.0 330

15 6.8 407

Weigh your animals monthly to make sure you are feeding the

correct amount of food. Overweight animals that are dieting should

be weighed weekly until the desired weight is achieved. Know that

they can safely lose 1–2 percent of their body weight per month—

but no more than 0.5 percent of their body weight per week.

Finally, always weigh food on your food scale, in ounces. If

you want to transfer the weighed volume into measuring cups (or

your favorite scoop), do so after you’ve measured accurately on a

food scale. Do you feed your pet two meals a day? Split the per day

amount in half and divide it between meals. Want to use part of the

meal in lick mats or an interactive toy? Start with the volume of

food needed for a day and divide as you like!

How to Change Your Animal’s Main Meals

To avoid GI upset, you should gradually introduce new diets to

your animals rather than all at once. To plan for this, consider: How

much fresh food do you ultimately want to add to your pet’s bowl

—daily or a few times a week? You don’t have to have an answer

immediately. Once you start adding fresh food to your pet’s diet,

you may find it so easy you can step it up and add it more often.

To make the transition seamless, follow these steps:

=== PAGE 315 ===
Step 1: Make one of the complete and balanced meal recipes in

this book. If your animal has a sensitive stomach, choose a

homemade recipe that has a similar protein to what their current

food is (if they are currently eating a beef diet, choose a

homemade beef recipe).

Step 2: Replace 10 percent of current food with 10 percent new,

homemade food. Mix very well. Monitor poop. Some cats and

finicky dogs may need to start with a smaller amount, maybe a 5

percent swap.

Step 3: Continue to replace 10 percent old food with 10 percent

new food until you are feeding as much new, homemade food as

you wish to feed.

=== PAGE 316 ===
Notes on Specific Ingredients

=== PAGE 317 ===
While most of the ingredients in our recipes are straightforward—

such as beef, eggs, herbs, mushrooms, and vegetables—many

ingredients may require you to travel beyond the grocery store. We

include these because they provide key whole food nutrition for

your pet. Fear not: we are not asking you to forage for wild plants

or source exotic ingredients from specialty markets. You may have

to visit your health food stores or shop online, however, and here’s

why.

Bonemeal: Growing dogs and cats need calcium and phosphorus

supplied in their food, yet many supplements contain other

vitamins and minerals (like human doses of vitamin D and copper)

that can be unsafe for pets. We remedied these issues by choosing

the calcium and phosphorus source Mother Nature provides for

dogs and cats: bones. Human-grade bonemeal is sterilized to

eliminate the risks of potential zoonotic diseases, can be third-

party verified for contaminants (purity tested), and is easy to find

at local health food stores or online. Do not use bonemeal powder

from a garden center, as it’s not approved for consumption (and

hasn’t been contaminant tested). Look for bonemeal powder that’s

28–30 percent calcium and 12–13 percent phosphorus with no

other additions.

Eggshell Powder: Many adult recipes do not require supplemental

phosphorus, so DIY eggshell powder (calcium carbonate) works

perfectly. You can swap a commercial calcium carbonate

supplement (same volume as eggshell powder) if you don’t want

to make your own.

Nutritional Yeast: Nutritional yeast provides vitamins B1, B2,

B6, and B12. It’s also a rich source of beta-glucans, a soluble fiber

that’s especially beneficial for the immune system and has anti-

tumor and anti-obesity activity, as well as bone regenerative

properties. Nutritional yeast is different from baker’s or brewer’s

=== PAGE 318 ===
yeast in that it’s been inactivated, so it’s no longer viable (or

capable of replication). For this reason, it’s also incapable of

causing yeast issues in pets.

Fish Oil: When recipes call for added fish oil, it’s intended to

meet your animal’s DHA and EPA omega-3 requirements. You can

use whatever EPA/DHA source you wish (see here for

suggestions).

More on Bonemeal vs. Raw Bones: Many seasoned raw

feeders choose whole ground (and unground) carcasses, but

because edible raw bones aren’t for all dogs and cats, we

settled on supplements to meet calcium and phosphorus

requirements. Never feed any type of cooked bones to pets

under any circumstances.

More on Calcium Carbonate: Calcium carbonate is one of

the most popular forms of human calcium supplementation

because it contains the highest amount of elemental calcium

(around 40 percent by weight), compared to calcium citrate

(just over 20 percent calcium). This results in much less

volume of calcium powder per recipe if calcium carbonate is

used. It’s also the cheapest form of calcium. The criticism of

calcium carbonate is that strong stomach acid is needed for

optimal absorption, which suits a carnivore perfectly because

they naturally have very acidic stomachs, so they take in this

form of calcium just fine.

Can I Swap Out or Skip Ingredients? We don’t recommend

it. Exchanging or eliminating ingredients alters the nutritional

profile of the recipe, potentially creating imbalances. The

=== PAGE 319 ===
smallest volume of herbs or other add-ins have been included

to provide specific nutrients or health benefits that are

important. You can find complete nutritional profiles for all

the recipes at www.foreverdog.com.

Note, however, that in several recipes, we’ve indicated

substitutions you can make while keeping the recipe complete

and balanced. The recipe yield and calories per ounce still

corresponds to the original ingredients. For calorie

information when using the substitutions, visit

www.foreverdog.com.

You may also wonder why certain ingredients appear in many

recipes, or why we chose what we did. Specifically:

Eggs: Eggs are used as a rich source of required choline and

bioavailable amino acids. Decreasing the number of eggs in the

recipe will likely result in choline deficiency.

Qualit

Design/Shutterstock, Inc.

Herbs and spices: Herbs and spices are used to meet some trace

mineral requirements, especially manganese and magnesium.

=== PAGE 320 ===
Bodor

Tirador/Shutterstock, Inc

Oysters: Oysters are used to meet zinc requirements. Canned

oysters packed in water are easy to find in grocery stores. If you

want to swap with a zinc supplement, 1 ounce of oysters = 10

milligrams of zinc supplement.

mamita/Shutterstock, Inc.

Salt: Salt is a required mineral necessary for electrolyte balance

that must be provided in the diet. Plain table salt is fine to use in

these recipes, although many brands are enriched with iodine,

which isn’t ideal for adult cats who don’t need iodine

supplementation, long-term. We prefer Himalayan (pink) salt

because it’s more mineral-dense, with no added anticaking agents.

=== PAGE 321 ===
Qualit

Design/Shutterstock, Inc.

Food Prep for Complete and Balanced Meals

Some of you may be old pros in the kitchen, while others may not

remember where you keep the knives. These recipes require

minimal prep work, so you don’t need any special culinary skills.

For the most part, the basics of human food prep apply to pet food

prep as well.

For instance, chopping, mincing, dicing, or shredding

ingredients can be done by hand or in a food processor or blender.

A food processor is the fastest way to mince, but note that the more

potent ingredients—like raw ginger, turmeric, garlic, cranberries,

and fresh herbs—need to be fine to ensure the potent tastes,

polyphenols, and flavonoids can be evenly distributed. Therefore,

they may require a few extra spins in the processor.

Grind or finely chop meat to an almost smooth consistency for

cats, very small dogs, or finicky animals. Larger dogs tend to

accept more coarsely chopped meats mixed with finely chopped or

pureed produce. As your animals adapt to eating homemade meals

they may enjoy and seek out more chunky meats, veggies, and

fruits. Obviously, animals with no teeth need the smallest food

particle sizes, with many guardians blending the food to the

consistency of a thick puree for easier swallowing. The rule of

thumb is you shouldn’t see undigested food in your animal’s poop.

=== PAGE 322 ===
If you see identifiable food in the stool, whiz up the ingredients to

be smaller in the next batch, and you may need to add a few

teaspoons of water or broth if you choose to use a blender.

=== PAGE 323 ===
Coarsely chopped

=== PAGE 324 ===
Minced

Finely chopped

=== PAGE 325 ===
Pureed

All of our recipes are formulated to be served either raw or

gently cooked, using the lowest heat and retaining moisture. A slow

cooker (Crock-Pot) is ideal, but poaching in a covered pot on the

stovetop works, too. If you’d like to bake your pet’s food, refer to

www.foreverrecipes.com for the formulation that accounts for

greater nutrient loss in the oven. Other DIY recipes you may have

followed don’t always account for nutrient losses due to cooking

methods, but we do.

The whole food ingredients listed in our recipes are raw (except

if you buy canned salmon), but feel free to use thawed-from-frozen

meats, fish, fruits, and veggies. Likewise, anywhere sardines,

=== PAGE 326 ===
oysters, or mussels are included, these can be fresh, raw, frozen,

cooked, or canned.

Understanding Ground Meat Labels: Unfortunately, many

meat labels do not indicate the meat’s fat percentage, but

using the correct meat leanness is a main determiner of

whether or not any recipe is complete and balanced.

Therefore, you have to calculate leanness as follows:

Look at grams of fat in a serving size.

Divide fat grams by serving size.

12 fat grams ÷ 100-gram serving size = .12 = 12 percent fat

Defining “Complete and Balanced”: Dogs and cats need

certain vitamins and minerals supplied in adequate amounts

from the food they eat for the food to be considered

“nutritionally complete,” yet pet multivitamins and whole

food supplements such as spirulina or phytoplankton are

grossly insufficient in providing adequate amounts in

appropriate quantities. Our recipes ensure that all nutritional

needs are completely met.

The term “balanced” is a little trickier to explain because

there’s no singular definition accepted by NRC, AAFCO, and

FEDIAF. Our definition relates to the relationship of nutrients

to one another (for example, the ratio of calcium to

phosphorus) as well as volume of nutrients consumed.

“Balanced” foods should not exceed safe upper limits of

nutrient tolerances (as extrapolated by FEDIAF), provide

macronutrients (protein, fat, moisture, and fiber) in the

=== PAGE 327 ===
ballpark of a dog and cat’s evolutionary or ancestral diet, and

meet FEDIAF’s Recommended Allowances (RA) of nutrients,

based on an animal’s metabolic needs.

How to Prepare the Vitamin and Mineral

Supplements in Supplemented Recipes

=== PAGE 328 ===


=== PAGE 329 ===


=== PAGE 330 ===
In the book and at www.foreverrecipes.com, you’ll see two types of

recipes incorporating either mostly whole foods or using vitamin

and mineral supplements. Using supplements reduces the cost of

making homemade food, but it still requires prep work. If you

choose a recipe that calls for supplements, open the number of

capsules needed and pour the powder contents of all the

supplements into a separate dish. Discard empty capsules. If you

are using supplements in pill or tablet form, crush to a fine powder

with a mortar and pestle. Add bonemeal, kelp, or eggshell powder

with all of the other supplements listed and mix well, then add half

the vitamin and mineral powder to the bowl of food, dusting the

powder evenly over the entire bowl. Mix well, add the remaining

half, and mix again. It’s imperative the powders are mixed

thoroughly and completely into the entire batch of food, so that the

added nutrients are distributed evenly throughout. For this reason,

sourcing dry vitamin and mineral supplements (versus liquid or

gelcaps) from your local health food store or online is

recommended.

Again, if you see a recipe on the following pages that is made

with supplements, you can visit www.foreverrecipes.com and find

the whole foods version. And if you find a whole foods recipe and

would prefer to make it with supplements, the same holds true.

Four Ways to Cook (or Not Cook) Complete and

Balanced Meals

How long you decide to cook your animal’s food is totally up to

you and your goals. It is completely fine to serve all food raw, but

you may not want to, and we’ve accounted for that. If your goal is

to kill any potentially pathogenic bacteria, once the meat achieves

=== PAGE 331 ===
an inner temperature of 165°F (use a meat thermometer to

determine this) you’ve accomplished your goal and can remove the

food from the heat source. If your goal is to make the veggies

softer because your dog has a tender mouth and needs soft foods,

use a fork to check for desired consistency, and remove the food

from heat immediately after achieving it. You may opt to cook your

veggies al dente (tender but firm) and blend with raw or partially

cooked meat, or vice versa, add minced raw veggies to fully

cooked meat. It’s fine to cook both the meat and veggies or cook

nothing. Sometimes, animals that have eaten raw food their whole

lives decide they no longer want their food raw, when they’re older.

These cooking methods provide you with safe, nutritious

alternatives, and if you need tips to feed picky or hesitant eaters,

see here.

Raw: All these recipes can be served entirely raw. If you have

concerns about potential parasites, place all meat and fish in the

freezer for three weeks after purchasing (which kills tapeworms,

roundworms, flukes, and flatworms). If you want to feed raw

veggies with cooked meats, poach or slow-cook the meat, then add

it to the rest of your raw meal.

Poached, stovetop: This is how you make recipes into delicious,

mouthwatering stews (canned food consistency). To poach, make

the recipe as directed and then add to a large pan, cover food with

filtered water, and cover the pan with a lid. Simmer on low heat

until internal temperature reaches 165°F. Serve and store with any

leftover cooking liquid, as it’s full of nutrients. For visual

instructions on how to poach, see the recipe for “Whitefish, Lamb,

and Egg Supreme.”

Crock-Pot/slow cooker: To “gently cook” recipes, add mixed

ingredients to a Crock-Pot/slow cooker set to low heat, with no

water added. Cook to desired doneness and serve with any

=== PAGE 332 ===
nutrient-filled liquid that’s run off. Cooking duration varies,

depending on ingredients and the size of your Crock-Pot, so check

on the cooking process regularly when making a recipe for the first

time.

Baked: Baked recipes can be found at www.foreverrecipes.com.

They are their own formulations that account for more nutrient loss

than occurs with the gentle cooking in a slow cooker or stovetop

poaching. Baked meals should be cooked in a dish that has a secure

lid and on the lowest heat setting for your oven. Bake in covered

cookware until desired doneness. Baking at higher heat or

uncovered will result in more AGE formation and nutrient

depletion. Check on the cooking process regularly when making a

recipe for the first time.

Finally, a word on AGEs. While the best way to limit AGEs in

food is to serve meals raw, poaching and gently cooking are second

best. In addition, when you cover food with a lid during cooking,

you dramatically reduce moisture loss, which reduces AGEs and

preserves nutrients. We don’t recommend other pet food cooking

methods on a routine basis (frying, broiling, grilling, smoking, etc.)

because they create substantially more AGEs or other unwanted

tagalongs and have more nutrient loss.

Cooking for Picky Eaters: We find that finicky animals, pets

that don’t feel well, or hesitant eaters often prefer gently

cooked foods first. That’s because cooked food releases a

tantalizing aroma that can stimulate appetite.

Storing, Freezing, Thawing, and Reheating

=== PAGE 333 ===
You may want to make big batches of food, and it’s fine to double

or triple the volume of recipes if you’re feeding many mouths, big

mouths, or want to prepare food less often. All recipes can be

frozen for future feeding.

We recommend feeding all frozen food within one month to

avoid nutrient losses over time, and you should thaw food in

the refrigerator, then feed within three days. Don’t refreeze

thawed food. Use common sense and store and thaw raw meat

products separately from other foods.

If your freezer food develops “freezer burn,” the grayish

discoloration that occurs when frozen food is exposed to air, your

food is still safe, but it’s lost some nutritional content. We

recommend rotating in some fresh food to serve along with the

previously frozen food.

Throw out foods that smell spoiled. Sanitize your counters,

cutting boards, and utensils, and wash your hands after preparing or

serving raw food. Don’t leave raw food meals out more than two

hours, and wash bowls after feeding.

If your animal prefers gently warmed food, heat thawed food in

a hot water bath, double boiler style. This means you should place

your pet’s container of food into a larger container of hot water,

then allow it to heat up. Avoid the microwave, as it heats food

unevenly.

A Note on Photos: We’ve included photos with each

complete and balanced recipe. You should note that each

photo highlights the main ingredients in each recipe.

However, photos do not depict actual volumes of ingredients

needed—and some photos don’t depict all the ingredients

=== PAGE 334 ===
needed. Follow a specified recipe exactly—not the photo—

when making homemade pet food.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 335 ===
Basic Beef and Broccoli

=== PAGE 336 ===
We’ve limited our first recipe to a few ingredients to show you how easy it

is to create complete and balanced meals. Both versions translate to the

same nutritional intake in terms of vitamins and minerals.

Adult Canine, Whole Foods

Yields 5¾ pounds

44 calories/ounce

48 ounces (3 pounds) ground beef, 90 percent lean

16 ounces fresh broccoli

6 large eggs, shelled

8 ounces cooked salmon

6 ounces beef liver

2 ounces raw sunflower seeds

25 grams wheat germ oil

8 grams ground ginger

8 grams ground cloves

5 grams nutritional yeast

17 grams eggshell powder

2 grams kelp powder (containing 700 micrograms of iodine per gram

of kelp powder. This is a total of 1,400 micrograms iodine if you

choose to use an iodine supplement instead of kelp powder.)

1. In a large bowl, mix food ingredients (except eggshell and kelp

powders) together.

2. In a small bowl, mix powders together, stirring well.

3. Dust ½ the powder over food and mix very thoroughly. Add remaining

powder and mix thoroughly again.

4. Serve raw, poached, or gently cooked.

=== PAGE 337 ===
Adult Canine, with Supplements

Yields 4½ pounds

50 calories/ounce

48 ounces (3 pounds) ground beef, 90 percent lean

16 ounces fresh broccoli

6 ounces beef liver

2 ounces raw sunflower seeds

2 grams salt

Supplements

11 grams calcium carbonate

1,400 micrograms iodine

300 milligrams magnesium

2,500 milligrams choline

10 grams fish oil with at least 250 milligrams EPA+DHA per

gram, without added vitamin D

8 milligrams manganese

50 milligrams thiamine (vitamin B1)

1,000 IU vitamin D

100 IU vitamin E

1. In a large bowl, mix food ingredients together.

2. In a small bowl, mix supplements together, stirring well.

3. Dust ½ the powder over food and mix very thoroughly. Add

remaining powder and mix thoroughly again.

=== PAGE 338 ===
4. Serve raw, poached, or gently cooked.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 339 ===
Garden-Fresh Goodness

=== PAGE 340 ===
Garden-Fresh Goodness is a sumptuous salad of green for your pet’s bowl,

rich in vitamin C from red peppers, fiber and antioxidants from cucumbers,

and one of our favorite Forever Foods, sardines, for a dose of omega-3s and

CoQ10. We’ve added arugula, also known as rocket, because it packs in a

punch of beta-carotene, prebiotic fiber, and vitamin K, and its high alpha

lipoic acids address oxidative stress. Even if your pet usually turns their

nose up at arugula, you may find it blends in well with the other flavors

here. If not, feel free to substitute with any green, leafy vegetable.

Adult Canine, Whole Foods

Yields 6 pounds

45 calories/ounce

50 ounces (approximately 3.125 pounds) ground beef, 90 percent lean

8 large eggs, shelled

6 ounces beef liver

6 ounces canned sardines packed in water, drained

6 ounces arugula

5 ounces cucumber with peel

5 ounces sweet red pepper

3 ounces raw sunflower seeds

8 grams dried parsley

8 grams dried basil

8 grams celery seed

8 grams dried tarragon

25 grams wheat germ oil (or 100 IU vitamin E supplement)

5 grams nutritional yeast

15 grams eggshell powder

=== PAGE 341 ===
2.5 grams kelp powder (containing 700 micrograms of iodine per gram

of kelp powder. This is a total of 1,750 micrograms iodine if you

choose to use an iodine supplement instead of kelp powder.)

1. In a large bowl, mix food ingredients (except eggshell and kelp

powders) together.

2. In a small bowl, mix powders together, stirring well.

3. Dust ½ the powder over food and mix very thoroughly. Add remaining

powder and mix thoroughly again.

4. Serve raw, poached, or gently cooked.

Kelp Is Complicated: Kelp is Mother Nature’s iodine

supplement. There is huge variability in iodine content of kelp

powder, so buy a brand that lists 700 micrograms of iodine

per gram of kelp powder. Alternatively, you can substitute an

iodine supplement for kelp, as directed in the recipes. Our

recipes have been formulated to meet your pet’s iodine

requirements to a T, including metabolic adjustments for cats

(for more on why iodine is so important, see here).

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 342 ===
Beef Bourguignon with Mussels

With tender chunks of beef in a hearty stew of tomatoes, mushrooms, and

carrots, Beef Bourguignon is one of the most beloved traditional dishes of

France. The human version calls for red wine, but we’ve substituted beef

liver to add a rich, stick-to-the-ribs flavor (and meet copper requirements).

Instead of pearl onions (found in the human version but toxic to dogs)

=== PAGE 343 ===
we’ve sprinkled in mussels, a rich source of omega-3s and vitamin D. Vive

la France!

Adult Canine, Whole Foods

Yields 5¼ pounds

42 calories/ounce

50 ounces (approximately 3.125 pounds) ground beef, 90 percent lean

8 large eggs, shelled

6 ounces beef liver

8 ounces mussels (or 6 ounces cooked salmon), or substitute 500 IU

vitamin D + 50 milligrams magnesium + 2 grams fish oil with at least

250 milligrams EPA+DHA per gram

5 ounces mushrooms (any type)

5 ounces fresh tomatoes

5 ounces carrots

2 ounces raw sunflower seeds

8 grams ground cloves

25 grams wheat germ oil (or 100 IU vitamin E supplement)

8 grams dried thyme

8 grams dried parsley

5 grams nutritional yeast

2 grams kelp powder (containing 700 micrograms of iodine per gram

of kelp powder. This is a total of 1,400 micrograms iodine if you

choose to use an iodine supplement instead of kelp powder.)

15 grams eggshell powder

1. In a large bowl, mix food ingredients (except kelp and eggshell

powders) together.

=== PAGE 344 ===
2. In a small bowl, mix powders together, stirring well.

3. Dust ½ the powder over food and mix very thoroughly. Add remaining

powder and mix thoroughly again.

4. Serve raw, poached, or gently cooked.

Choline Is Crucial: We can’t stress enough how important it

is to maintain adequate choline levels in your diet. Choline is

needed to make acetylcholine, a neurotransmitter that is

essential for cognitive function. Choline also reduces

homocysteine levels, which is associated with less

inflammation and better cell function. If you can’t feed

whole eggs, in this recipe, substitute 500 IU vitamin D and

700 milligrams choline supplement.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 345 ===
Beef Mexican Fiesta

=== PAGE 346 ===
We head to Mexico for a rich dish full of flavor (thanks to cilantro) and

prebiotic fiber and vitamin C (thanks to jicama). Also known as a yam bean

or “the Mexican turnip,” you can use jicama as part of recipes like this or as

a crunchy training treat. Just be sure to peel off the skin, as it can harbor

toxic mold.

Adult Canine, Whole Foods

Yields 6 pounds

44 calories/ounce

50 ounces (approximately 3.125 pounds) ground beef, 90 percent lean

7 large eggs, shelled

10 ounces raw jicama, peeled

6 ounces beef liver

6 ounces canned sardines packed in water, drained

4 ounces avocado

3 ounces raw sunflower seeds

2 ounces fresh cilantro

15 grams wheat germ oil (or 50 IU vitamin E supplement)

9 grams ground cloves

8 grams ground cumin

8 grams ground coriander

5 grams nutritional yeast

15 grams eggshell powder

2 grams kelp powder (containing 700 micrograms of iodine per gram

of kelp powder. This is a total of 1,400 micrograms iodine if you

choose to use an iodine supplement instead of kelp.)

=== PAGE 347 ===
1. In a large bowl, mix food ingredients (except eggshell and kelp

powders) together.

2. In a small bowl, mix powders together, stirring well.

3. Dust ½ the powder over food and mix very thoroughly. Add remaining

powder and mix thoroughly again.

4. Serve raw, poached, or gently cooked.

Why Wheat Germ Oil? Vitamin E is essential for skin and

coat health, and wheat germ oil is one of nature’s easiest ways

to rapidly increase systemic vitamin E levels. If you can’t use

wheat germ oil in the recipe, you can use a vitamin E

supplement instead. Substitute: 15 grams wheat germ oil =

50 IU vitamin E supplement.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 348 ===
Argentinian Beef with Chimichurri

=== PAGE 349 ===
For over three hundred years, gauchos have let their cattle herds graze on

the wild, green grasses of the Pampas, creating more sustainable—and

delicious—meat. When it’s dinnertime, family chefs top cuts of beef with

chimichurri, a sauce made with herbs that’s the perfect topper for your

animal friend’s meals, too. Here, we mix it in with organ meat, salmon, and

oysters for a complete and balanced meal your dog can enjoy.

Canine Growth, Whole Foods

Yields 6½ pounds

42 calories/ounce

50 ounces (approximately 3.125 pounds) ground beef, 90 percent lean

6 ounces beef liver

6 ounces cooked salmon

8 large eggs, shelled

3.5 ounces raw sunflower seeds

3 ounces beef spleen (or 36-milligram iron supplement)

3 ounces oysters (or 30-milligram zinc supplement)

11 grams ground cloves

25 grams wheat germ oil (or substitute 100 IU vitamin E supplement)

5 grams salt

2 grams nutritional yeast

8 ounces winter squash (acorn, carnival, green kabocha, buttercup, or

any variety except butternut)

8 ounces summer squash (green or yellow zucchini, luffa, chayote, or

others)

2 ounces fresh parsley

15 grams dried oregano

=== PAGE 350 ===
2.5 grams kelp powder (containing 700 micrograms of iodine per

gram. This is a total of 1,750 micrograms iodine if you choose to use

an iodine supplement instead of kelp powder.)

44 grams bonemeal

1. In a large bowl, mix food ingredients (except kelp and bonemeal)

together.

2. In a small bowl, mix powders together, stirring well.

3. Dust ½ the powder over food and mix very thoroughly. Add remaining

powder and mix thoroughly again.

4. Serve raw, poached, or gently cooked.

Oysters for Zinc: Oysters are a naturally rich source of

taurine, vitamin B12, and—crucially here—zinc. Zinc is vital

for healthy skin and thyroid and immune health, yet many

homemade diets are deficient. Zinc can be found in prey’s

teeth, testicles, and hair (all great sources of zinc, but also too

gross for many folks!). Canned, aquaculture-raised oysters are

not only less expensive, but—according to research—contain

around 50 percent fewer microplastics than the wild-caught

varieties. If you can’t find canned oysters to meet your

animal’s zinc requirements, substitute with a zinc

supplement, which we’ve suggested in this recipe. 1 ounce

of oysters = 10 milligrams of zinc supplement.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 351 ===
California Beef

Avocados and oranges may be two of California’s best-loved fruits, but the

Golden State is home to 80 percent of the country’s strawberry crops. Not

only are strawberries a sweet, tasty treat for dogs, but they’re rich in

flavonoids, antioxidants, and fisetin, which combat oxidative stress and

inflammation.

=== PAGE 352 ===
Canine Growth, with Supplements

Yields 5¼ pounds

46 calories/ounce

50 ounces (approximately 3.125 pounds) ground beef, 90 percent lean

6 ounces beef liver

6 ounces cooked salmon

6 ounces avocado

6 ounces fresh strawberries

4 ounces alfalfa sprouts

3½ ounces raw sunflower seeds

6 grams salt

5 grams nutritional yeast

42 grams bonemeal

2.5 grams kelp powder (containing 700 micrograms of iodine per

gram. This is a total of 1,750 micrograms iodine if you choose to use

an iodine supplement instead of kelp powder.)

Supplements

1,500 milligrams choline

100 IU vitamin E

54 milligrams iron

30 milligrams zinc

8 milligrams manganese

1. In a large bowl, mix food ingredients (except bonemeal and kelp)

together.

2. In a small bowl, mix bonemeal, kelp, and supplements together,

stirring well.

=== PAGE 353 ===
3. Dust ½ the powder over food and mix very thoroughly. Add remaining

powder and mix thoroughly again.

4. Serve raw, poached, or gently cooked.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 354 ===
Indian Beef

=== PAGE 355 ===
This fragrant meal mimics a saag paneer with spinach, providing a healthy

dose of folate for cell growth and lutein for eye health and tumor

suppression. Cardamom—the small green pod that gives this recipe a sweet,

savory flavor—has been used for centuries to enhance digestion, but it also

contains powerful anti-inflammatory compounds. Beets are one of the

richest sources of betanin, which exhibits antioxidant defense mechanisms,

gene-regulatory activities, and neuroprotective effects, and can help lower

the production of free radicals. Beets also offer the body an abundant source

of nitric oxide, which helps relax and dilate blood vessels, leading to better

circulation and overall heart health.

Adult Canine Less Active, Mostly Whole Foods

Yields 6½ pounds

44 calories/ounce

50 ounces (approximately 3.125 pounds) ground beef, 90 percent lean

10 large eggs, shelled

8 ounces fresh spinach

8 ounces beetroots

6 ounces beef liver

6 ounces cooked salmon

2.5 ounces raw sunflower seeds

30 grams wheat germ oil (or 100 IU vitamin E supplement)

8 grams ground turmeric

8 grams ground cardamom seeds

8 grams nutritional yeast

4 grams ground black pepper (enhances the absorption of curcumin in

the turmeric)

2 grams kelp powder (containing 700 micrograms of iodine per gram.

This is a total of 1,400 micrograms iodine if you choose to use an

=== PAGE 356 ===
iodine supplement rather than kelp powder.)

42 grams bonemeal

Supplements

1,000 milligrams choline

100 milligrams magnesium

30 milligrams zinc

1. In a large bowl, mix food ingredients (except kelp and bonemeal)

together.

2. In a small bowl, mix supplements, kelp, and bonemeal together,

stirring well.

3. Dust ½ the powder over food and mix very thoroughly. Add remaining

powder and mix thoroughly again.

4. Serve raw, poached, or gently cooked.

Yeast Power: Nutritional yeast is a whole food supplement

loaded with glutathione, fiber, potassium, and—crucially in

these recipes—thiamine. Thiamine, also known as vitamin

B1, is vital for your pet’s ability to metabolize glucose into

energy. It also supports brain function and DNA production,

and, without sufficient quantities, dogs and cats may

experience vomiting, lethargy, or nervous system damage.

Cats require two to four times more thiamine in their diets

than dogs, and nutritional yeast is the best source of it. If you

can’t feed your pet nutritional yeast, substitute a thiamine

(B1) supplement: 1 oz nutritional yeast = 20 milligrams

thiamine (vitamin B1) supplement.

=== PAGE 357 ===
OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 358 ===
Beef Spring Flavors

=== PAGE 359 ===
In Italy, the start of spring means one thing: it’s asparagus season. From

Piedmont to the heel of the boot, farmers park in grocery store lots—with

hand-painted signs reading ASPARAGI!—selling thin stalks of the beloved

vegetable out of the backs of their trucks. Rich in prebiotic fiber, folate,

vitamin K, and the flavonoid rutin, asparagus has even been shown to

improve glucose metabolism, not to mention its above-average glutathione

content. It’s spring! Celebrate the season with asparagus.

Adult Canine Less Active, with Supplements

Yields 5¾ pounds

42 calories/ounce

50 ounces (approximately 3.125 pounds) ground beef, 90 percent lean

6 large eggs, shelled

8 ounces asparagus

6 ounces beef liver

6 ounces salmon

5 ounces green peas

3 ounces fennel bulb

2.5 ounces raw sunflower seeds

17 grams eggshell powder

Supplements

1,350 micrograms iodine

1,500 milligrams choline

300 milligrams magnesium

15 milligrams zinc

8 milligrams manganese

50 milligrams thiamine (vitamin B1)

100 IU vitamin E

=== PAGE 360 ===
1. In a large bowl, mix food ingredients (except eggshell powder)

together.

2. In a small bowl, mix eggshell powder and supplements together,

stirring well.

3. Dust ½ the powder over food and mix very thoroughly. Add remaining

powder and mix thoroughly again.

4. Serve raw, poached, or gently cooked.

The Pea Problem: Many grain-free commercial dog foods

use pea powder or pea protein powder instead of grain, but

there can be a big problem with consuming large amounts of

legumes. Legumes are full of sugar-binding proteins called

lectins, sticky molecules that bind to the lining of the small

intestine. If fed on a daily basis and in high amounts, lectins

have the potential to tear up the digestive tract, prevent the

absorption of nutrients, harm the gut microbiome, and lead to

inflammatory diseases including diabetes, rheumatoid

arthritis, and celiac disease. While cooked green peas provide

this recipe delicious flavor, and they are fine to use as training

treats, there is no need to feed dogs excessive amounts of

legumes (meaning more than 10 percent of daily food intake)

every day. Stick to reasonable amounts—in the form of treats,

toppers, or as part of a veggie add-in.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 361 ===
Filipino Tinola Chicken and Beef

=== PAGE 362 ===
Tinola is a one-pot Filipino classic: a light stew consisting of meat, papaya,

and greens, cooked with good-for-the-gut ginger till the ingredients are

tender. We’ve included manganese-rich coconut cream, which has been

found to help balance blood sugar levels. When your pet is feeling yucky,

on a rainy day, or just because, try this nourishing, soulful recipe with a

flavorful kick. Kain tayo (let’s eat!).

Adult Canine, Mostly Whole Foods

Yields 6¾ pounds

44 calories/ounce

52 ounces (3.25 pounds) ground beef, 90 percent lean

16 ounces (1 pound) ground chicken, 14 percent fat

6 large eggs, shelled

7.5 ounces beef liver

12 ounces fresh spinach

6 ounces papaya

40 grams wheat germ oil (or 100 IU vitamin E supplement)

9 grams coconut cream, unsweetened

10 grams ground ginger

10 grams ground turmeric

5 grams ground black pepper

5 grams nutritional yeast

15 grams eggshell powder

2 grams kelp powder (containing 700 micrograms of iodine per gram

kelp powder. This is a total of 1,400 micrograms iodine if you choose

to use an iodine supplement rather than kelp powder.)

Supplement

=== PAGE 363 ===
500 IU vitamin D

1. In a large bowl, mix food ingredients (except eggshell and kelp

powders) together.

2. In a small bowl, mix powders and supplement together, stirring well.

3. Dust ½ the powder over food and mix very thoroughly. Add remaining

powder and mix thoroughly again.

4. Serve raw, poached, or gently cooked.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 364 ===
Berry Beef and Chicken Salad

=== PAGE 365 ===
This colorful creation is a fresh bowl of goodness for your pet, with one of

our favorite grab-and-go training treats: berries! Berries are abundant in

myricetin, a bioflavonoid that stimulates cancer cell death, including dog

bone cancer cells, while the cucurbitacin found in cucumbers possesses

anti-inflammatory and antioxidant properties. Use leftover berries, seeds,

and cucumbers as treats after you whip together this easy summertime (or

anytime) meal.

Adult Canine, Whole Foods

Yields 5¾ pounds

44 calories/ounce

36 ounces (2.25 pounds) ground beef, 90 percent lean

12 ounces (.75 pounds) chicken breast with skin

5 large eggs, shelled

8 ounces salmon

7 ounces beef liver

5 ounces cucumber with peel

5 ounces arugula, or any dark green leafy veggie

3 ounces blueberries

3 ounces raspberries

2 ounces raw pumpkin seeds

2 ounces oysters, raw or canned (or 15 milligrams zinc supplement)

25 grams wheat germ oil (or 100 IU vitamin E supplement)

10 raw, unsalted almonds

7 grams ground cloves

5 grams nutritional yeast

15 grams eggshell powder

=== PAGE 366 ===
2 grams kelp powder (containing 700 micrograms of iodine per gram.

This is a total of 1,400 micrograms iodine if you choose to use an

iodine supplement rather than kelp powder.)

1. In a large bowl, mix food ingredients (except eggshell and kelp

powders) together.

2. In a small bowl, mix powders together, stirring well.

3. Dust ½ the powder over food and mix very thoroughly. Add remaining

powder and mix thoroughly again.

4. Serve raw, poached, or gently cooked.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 367 ===
Beef and Chicken Forager’s Delight

Animals are foragers by nature. A study of canine feces found in a late-

Neolithic dwelling site in Slovenia (estimated fifth to second century BC)

revealed companion dogs ate a wide variety of plant matter, likely from

shrubs and growth on the ground. With mushrooms, dandelion greens, root

vegetables, and essential fatty acid–rich hempseeds (which can lower liver

=== PAGE 368 ===
and kidney markers—good news for pets at risk of developing chronic

kidney, liver, and cardiovascular diseases), this meal is a forager’s dream

come true.

Adult Canine, Whole Foods

Yields 5¾ pounds

46 calories/ounce

36 ounces (2.25 pounds) ground beef, 90 percent lean

16 ounces (1 pound) ground chicken, 14 percent fat

7 large eggs, shelled

8 ounces dandelion greens

6 ounces UV-exposed mushrooms, any type (see here on how to

increase vitamin D levels in mushrooms by UV exposure)

6 ounces beef liver

5 ounces Jerusalem artichokes

1.5 ounces hempseeds, hulled

1 ounce oysters, canned or raw (or 10 milligrams zinc supplement)

45 grams wheat germ oil (or 100 IU vitamin E supplement)

8 grams dried parsley

8 grams dried basil

5 grams nutritional yeast

15 grams eggshell powder

1.5 grams kelp powder (containing 700 micrograms of iodine per

gram, for a total of 1,050 micrograms iodine if you choose to use an

iodine supplement rather than kelp powder)

1. In a large bowl, mix food ingredients (except eggshell and kelp

powders) together.

=== PAGE 369 ===
2. In a small bowl, mix powders together, stirring well.

3. Dust ½ the powder over food and mix very thoroughly. Add remaining

powder and mix thoroughly again.

4. Serve raw, poached, or gently cooked.

The Importance of Iodine for Dogs: Iodine is essential to

your pet’s metabolism and thyroid hormone production, and

without sufficient intake, dogs can develop hypothyroidism.

Unfortunately, compared to humans, dogs don’t do a very

good job of storing iodine in their bodies, which means their

dietary iodine needs are higher than most pet parents may

realize. (Cats store iodine remarkably well, which is why our

feline recipes have far less iodine.) Most homemade dog food

recipes may not provide the iodine your pet needs, so one of

the best ways to supplement is by giving your dog seaweed

products, including kelp. Not only is kelp rich in natural

iodine, but it also contains prebiotic fibers, amino acids, and

phytonutrients, including lycopene and carotene. If you can’t

feed your dog kelp, substitute with an iodine supplement:

0.5 grams iodine-rich kelp powder (the specific type called

for in the recipes) = 1 tablet or capsule (350 micrograms)

of iodine supplement.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 370 ===
Beef and Chicken Gumbo

=== PAGE 371 ===
Gumbo is the official state food of Louisiana, famous for its blend of celery,

peppers, and onions, thickened into a hearty stew using okra. We skip the

onions but re-create this Creole classic with a savory mix of beef, chicken,

sardines, and veggies. Laissez les bons temps rouler (Let the good times

roll)!

Adult Canine, Whole Foods

Yields 7¼ pounds

46 calories/ounce

48 ounces (3 pounds) ground beef, 90 percent lean

16 ounces (1 pound) ground chicken, 14 percent fat

9 large eggs, shelled

8 ounces fresh or canned sardines (packed in water, drained)

7 ounces beef liver

6 ounces sweet red peppers

6 ounces okra

4 ounces celery

50 grams wheat germ oil (or 200 IU vitamin E supplement)

1.5 ounces hempseed, hulled

2 ounces oysters (or 15 milligrams zinc supplement)

9 grams dried parsley

9 grams dried thyme

9 grams ground turmeric

5 grams nutritional yeast

18 grams eggshell powder

2 grams kelp powder (containing 700 micrograms of iodine per gram

of kelp powder. This is a total of 1,400 micrograms iodine if you use

=== PAGE 372 ===
an iodine supplement rather than kelp powder.)

1. In a large bowl, mix food ingredients (except eggshell and kelp

powders) together.

2. In a small bowl, mix powders together, stirring well.

3. Dust ½ the powder over food and mix very thoroughly. Add remaining

powder and mix thoroughly again.

4. Serve raw, poached, or gently cooked.

Okra Can Be Slimy: When it’s cooked, okra may turn into

goo. But it turns out that indigestible slime is a demulcent, a

balm that soothes the intestinal tract and also has antiadhesive

properties. Together, this causes bad bacteria to struggle to

stick to the intestines. Okra’s fiber helps bind up toxins,

preventing resorption, and okra consumption also increases

levels of the detoxifying enzymes glutathione, superoxide

dismutase (SOD), and catalase.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 373 ===
Chinese Beef and Chicken Stir-Fry

=== PAGE 374 ===
Pak choi goes by many names, including bok choy or Chinese celery

cabbage, and it’s the small cruciferous vegetable with big nutritional

benefits. A staple of Chinese-inspired cooking, pak choi contains chemical

compounds called glucosinolates, which can protect against certain cancers.

Its slightly bitter taste blends perfectly with ginger and oyster sauce for a

savory “stir-fry” your pet will lap up.

Canine Growth, Mostly Whole Foods

Yields 6 pounds

43 calories/ounce

32 ounces (2 pounds) ground beef, 90 percent lean

16 ounces (1 pound) ground chicken, 14 percent fat

9 large eggs, shelled

8 ounces pak choi

6 ounces cauliflower

5 ounces beef liver

4 ounces raw or canned oysters (or 35 milligrams zinc supplement plus

2 grams fish oil plus additional gram of salt)

4 ounces beef spleen (or 54 milligrams iron supplement)

57 grams wheat germ oil (or 100 IU vitamin E supplement)

9 grams ground ginger

9 grams ground cloves

4 grams salt

4 grams nutritional yeast

45 grams bonemeal

2 grams kelp powder (containing 700 micrograms of iodine per gram

of kelp powder. This is a total of 1,400 micrograms iodine if you use

an iodine supplement instead of kelp powder.)

=== PAGE 375 ===
Supplement

250 IU vitamin D

1. In a large bowl, mix food ingredients (except bonemeal and kelp)

together.

2. In a small bowl, mix powders and supplement together, stirring well.

3. Dust ½ the powder over food and mix very thoroughly. Add remaining

powder and mix thoroughly again.

4. Serve raw, poached, or gently cooked.

Beef Spleen for Iron: Beef spleen may be hard to source in

some locations, so be sure to check out local meat shops and

butchers, farmers’ markets, and co-ops. If not, you can find

frozen spleen through online retailers. Just know that your

sourcing efforts are worth it because, pound for pound, beef

spleen contains five times as much iron—and thirty times as

much heme iron—compared to beef liver. Iron is essential for

providing oxygen to muscles and organs, and without enough,

your pet can become weak and lethargic. Tuftsin and

splenopentin, two peptides found in spleen, enhance immune

function, stimulate white blood cells to fight against infections

and cancer, and promote the growth of killer cells, which

destroy sick, virus-filled cells. If you can’t find beef spleen,

you can substitute it with an iron supplement: 1.5 ounces

beef spleen = 18 milligrams iron supplement.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 376 ===
Beef and Chicken Gyros

=== PAGE 377 ===
For humans, there are few diets better for longevity than the Mediterranean

diet, and gyros—which hail from Greece—are a Mediterranean classic.

We’ve left out the pita (though we re-created one in the photo using the

gelatin Frisbee) but have kept gyros’ signature sauce, tzatziki, a tart blend of

microbiome-building yogurt, spices, and cucumbers. Chicken also contains

an abundance of omega-6 fatty acids. If you want to optimize the ratio of

omega-3 fats in this recipe, add ten grams of an EPA/DHA supplement

(your favorite marine or fish oil) or 6 ounces of sardines (fresh or canned,

packed in water).

Canine Growth, Mostly Whole Foods

Yields 6½ pounds

39 calories/ounce

32 ounces (2 pounds) ground beef, 90 percent lean

16 ounces (1 pound) ground chicken, 14 percent fat

9 large eggs, shelled

8 ounces cucumber with peel

4 ounces plain Greek yogurt

6 ounces lettuce (any type)

5 ounces beef liver

4 ounces oysters (or 40 milligrams zinc plus one gram fish oil plus one

additional gram of salt)

4 ounces fresh tomatoes

3 ounces beef spleen (or 36 milligrams iron supplement)

40 grams wheat germ oil (or 100 IU vitamin E supplement)

13 grams dried rosemary

13 grams dried oregano

14 grams dried thyme

=== PAGE 378 ===
11 grams ground cloves

4 grams salt

4 grams nutritional yeast

45 grams bonemeal

2 grams kelp powder (containing 700 micrograms of iodine per gram

of kelp powder. This is a total of 1,400 micrograms iodine if you

choose to use an iodine supplement rather than kelp powder.)

Supplement

250 IU vitamin D

1. In a large bowl, mix food ingredients (except bonemeal and kelp)

together.

2. In a small bowl, mix powders and supplement together, stirring well.

3. Dust ½ the powder over food and mix very thoroughly. Add remaining

powder and mix thoroughly again.

4. Serve raw, poached, or gently cooked.

Cloves Fight Inflammation: Cloves have powerful anti-

inflammatory effects, and one of their bioactive components,

eugenol, has beneficial antibacterial, antifungal, antioxidant,

antiseptic, and anesthetic properties. Cloves must be ground

and never offered whole, as they can be a choking hazard. In

this recipe, cloves are added to meet manganese

requirements. If you can’t include ground cloves,

substitute seventeen grams of ground turmeric or two

milligrams manganese supplement from the health food

store.

=== PAGE 379 ===
OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 380 ===
Ruby Red Beef and Chicken

=== PAGE 381 ===
Red cabbage, meat, beets, and pomegranates—it’s a feast of ruby red! This

meal is as heart-healthy as they come, with antioxidant-rich pomegranates

that reduce oxidative stress in canine endothelial cells (the cells that line the

blood vessels). If you have a small dog, just be sure to grind or mash up the

seeds so they don’t pose a choking risk.

Adult Canine Less Active, Mostly Whole Foods

Yields 4¾ pounds

49 calories/ounce

32 ounces (2 pounds) ground beef, 90 percent lean

16 ounces (1 pound) ground chicken, 14 percent fat

8 ounces beetroot

4 ounces beef liver

4 ounces red cabbage

4 ounces fresh pomegranate seeds

3 ounces raw or canned oysters (or 30 milligrams zinc supplement plus

one gram salt)

2.25 ounces hempseed, hulled

35 grams wheat germ oil (or 100 IU vitamin E supplement)

8 grams ground turmeric

5 grams nutritional yeast

3 Brazil nuts

12 grams eggshell powder

8 grams bonemeal

1.5 grams kelp powder (containing 700 micrograms of iodine per

gram. This is a total of 1,050 micrograms iodine if you choose to use

an iodine supplement rather than kelp powder.)

=== PAGE 382 ===
Supplements

3,000 milligrams choline

1,000 IU vitamin D

1. In a large bowl, mix food ingredients (except eggshell, bonemeal, and

kelp powders) together.

2. In a small bowl, mix powders and supplements together, stirring well.

3. Dust ½ the powder over food and mix very thoroughly. Add remaining

powder and mix thoroughly again.

4. Serve raw, poached, or gently cooked.

Powerful Pomegranate: Feeding pomegranate improves

cardiovascular, nerve, and skeletal health. That’s because

pomegranates are rich in punicalagins, the most potent

antioxidant activity of almost all known fruits.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 383 ===
Beef and Chicken African Stew

=== PAGE 384 ===
This hearty stew uses sweet potatoes—a staple crop of Eastern and Central

Africa—as one of its main ingredients. Full of prebiotic, good-for-the-gut

fiber, sweet potatoes also contain an abundance of beta-carotene, phenolic

compounds, and cancer-fighting antioxidants.

Buttery Brazil nuts—one of nature’s richest sources of selenium—aid

proper thyroid function, cell growth, and immune response, and a

deficiency in selenium can lead to thyroid disease. Humans can eat as few

as two Brazil nuts a day and receive all the selenium they need in their

diets!

Adult Canine Less Active, Mostly Whole Foods

Yields 5 pounds

48 calories/ounce

32 ounces (2 pounds) ground beef, 90 percent lean

16 ounces (1 pound) ground chicken, 14 percent fat

6 ounces sweet potatoes

6 ounces fresh tomatoes

6 ounces green zucchini or yellow summer squash

5 ounces beef liver

3 ounces raw or canned oysters (or 30 milligrams zinc plus 6

milligrams iron plus 1 gram salt)

2.5 ounces hempseeds, hulled

45 grams wheat germ oil (or 100 IU vitamin E supplement)

7 grams ground ginger

7 grams ground cinnamon

5 grams nutritional yeast

1 raw Brazil nut

10 grams eggshell powder

=== PAGE 385 ===
10 grams bonemeal

1.5 grams kelp powder (containing 700 micrograms of iodine per

gram. This is a total of 1,050 micrograms iodine if you choose to use

an iodine supplement rather than kelp powder.)

Supplements

1,000 IU vitamin D

3,000 milligrams choline

1. In a large bowl, mix food ingredients (except eggshell, bonemeal, and

kelp powders) together.

2. In a small bowl, mix powders and supplements together, stirring well.

3. Dust ½ the powder over food and mix very thoroughly. Add remaining

powder and mix thoroughly again.

4. Serve raw, poached, or gently cooked.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 386 ===
Beef and Chicken Surf and Turf

=== PAGE 387 ===
A perfect balance of land and sea! With mussels, oysters, organ meat, beef,

chicken, and delicious, nutritious fruits and vegetables, this complete and

balanced recipe is a meat- and fish-based delight your beloved will devour.

Adult Cat and Adult Cat Less Active, Mostly Whole Foods

Yields 5¼ pounds

44 calories/ounce

32 ounces (2 pounds) ground beef, 90 percent lean

16 ounces (1 pound) ground chicken, 14 percent fat

13 ounces raw or canned mussels (or 495 milligrams potassium

supplement plus 2 grams salt plus 50 milligrams magnesium

supplement plus 4 grams fish oil containing at least 250 milligrams

EPA+DHA per gram)

5 ounces mushrooms (any kind)

3 ounces zucchini or yellow summer squash

5 ounces beef liver

4 ounces beef spleen (or 36 milligrams iron supplement and 297

milligrams potassium supplement)

3 ounces chicken liver

3 ounces oysters (or 30 milligrams zinc supplement and 297

milligrams potassium supplement)

43 grams wheat germ oil (or 100 IU vitamin E)

18 grams nutritional yeast

8 grams ground turmeric

8 grams ground cinnamon

8 grams ground ginger

14 grams eggshell powder

=== PAGE 388 ===
0.75 grams kelp powder (containing 700 micrograms of iodine per

gram. This is a total of 525 micrograms iodine if you choose to use an

iodine supplement rather than kelp powder.)

Supplements

300 IU vitamin D

6,000 milligrams choline

3,000 milligrams taurine

1. In a large bowl, mix food ingredients (except eggshell and kelp

powders) together.

2. In a small bowl, mix powders and supplements together, stirring well.

3. Dust ½ the powder over food and mix very thoroughly. Add remaining

powder and mix thoroughly again.

4. Serve raw, poached, or gently cooked.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 389 ===
Meat Loaf for Everyone!

=== PAGE 390 ===
Meat loaf is classic American comfort food—for pets and their people.

Here, we elevate meat loaf beyond ketchup- and egg-soaked ground beef to

a nutritionally balanced meal with ground pork and salmon as its base.

Throw in some spinach and you have a cancer-fighting dish your pet will

devour. How does spinach fight cancer? It contains more sulfoquinovosyl

diacylglycerol (SQDG) and monogalactosyldiacylglycerol (MGDG) than

any other green vegetable, and both slow cancer cell growth. This recipe

can be served to both dogs and cats, young and old!

Canine and Cat, All Life Stages, with Supplements

Yields 4½ pounds

42 calories/ounce

28 ounces ground pork, 12 percent fat

13 large eggs, shelled

14 ounces salmon

7 ounces raw spinach

4 grams salt

33 grams bonemeal

2 grams kelp powder (containing 700 micrograms iodine per gram of

kelp powder. This is a total of 1,400 micrograms iodine if you choose

to use an iodine supplement rather than kelp powder.)

Supplements

3,000 milligrams choline

3,000 milligrams taurine

90 milligrams iron

10 milligrams copper

75 milligrams zinc

200 milligrams magnesium

8 milligrams manganese

=== PAGE 391 ===
1 tablet vitamin B Complex (B50, 50 milligrams), crushed

100 IU vitamin E

1. In a large bowl, mix food ingredients (except bonemeal and kelp

powders) together.

2. In a small bowl, mix powders and supplements together, stirring well.

3. Dust ½ the powder over food and mix very thoroughly. Add remaining

powder and mix thoroughly again.

4. Serve raw, poached, or gently cooked.

=== PAGE 392 ===
OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 393 ===
Pork Hawaiian Luau

=== PAGE 394 ===
Around 300 AD, when Polynesians rowed toward Hawaii across vast

stretches of the Pacific Ocean, they brought two types of animals with

them: dogs and pigs. The legacy of poi dog—that now extinct breed—lives

on in this recipe, which contains some of the best foods of Hawaii. One of

these is bromelain-rich pineapple, which assists in digestion, calms

gastrointestinal irritation, and reduces inflammation.

Adult Canine, with Supplements

Yields 5 pounds

39 calories/ounce

28 ounces pork, 12 percent fat

11 large eggs, shelled

13 ounces salmon

6 ounces carrots

6 ounces fresh pineapple

6 ounces banana

7 grams ground cloves

32 grams bonemeal

1 gram kelp powder (containing 700 micrograms iodine per gram of

kelp powder. This is a total of 700 micrograms iodine if you choose to

use an iodine supplement rather than kelp powder.)

Supplements

6 milligrams copper

45 milligrams zinc

18 milligrams iron

100 micrograms vitamin B12

100 IU vitamin E

=== PAGE 395 ===
1. In a large bowl, mix food ingredients (except bonemeal and kelp)

together.

2. In a small bowl, mix powders and supplements together, stirring well.

3. Dust ½ the powder over food and mix very thoroughly. Add remaining

powder and mix thoroughly again.

4. Serve raw, poached, or gently cooked.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 396 ===
Pork “Roast” with Apples

=== PAGE 397 ===
Few foods are more comforting than a well-cooked roast. We prefer not to

roast meat for pets because the high heat increases AGEs and depletes many

of the beneficial nutrients, so we’ve modified this recipe to give your pet all

the flavor and more nutrition. At its heart is cabbage. We recommend the

purple variety, which contains four times more antioxidants than green and

has been shown to reduce the markers of gut inflammation by as much as

40 percent in cell cultures. The pectin in apples also helps balance the

bowels and nourish the microbiome while preventing growth of harmful

microbes. Curl up with your best friend and enjoy a slow, satisfying anti-

inflammatory meal together. Family time as it should be!

Adult Canine Less Active, with Supplements

Yields 4¼ pounds

40 calories/ounce

28 ounces pork, 12 percent fat

14 ounces salmon

6 large eggs, shelled

6 ounces cabbage, any variety

5 ounces apples, skin on

3 ounces carrots

7 grams dried rosemary

7 grams ground cinnamon

11 grams eggshell powder

2 grams kelp powder (containing 700 micrograms iodine per gram of

kelp, to provide a total of 1,400 micrograms of iodine if you choose to

use an iodine supplement rather than kelp powder)

Supplements

60 milligrams zinc

=== PAGE 398 ===
1,500 milligrams choline

6 milligrams copper

300 milligrams magnesium

18 milligrams iron

8 milligrams manganese

1 tablet vitamin B complex (B50, 50 milligrams), crushed

100 IU vitamin E

1. In a large bowl, mix food ingredients (except eggshell and kelp

powders) together.

2. In a small bowl, mix powders and supplements together, stirring well.

3. Dust ½ the powder over food and mix very thoroughly. Add remaining

powder and mix thoroughly again.

4. Serve raw, poached, or gently cooked.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 399 ===
Pork Pumpkin Patch

Your pet can enjoy an honest-to-goodness Thanksgiving feast with this

meal. Gut-soothing pumpkin, polyphenol-rich cranberries, and brain-

boosting turmeric blend to make a dish that’s perfect for any time of the

year. Brussels sprouts are also rich in a biological component called

glucosinolate, which can protect against the DNA damage that can lead to

cancer. It’s a crisp fall day every day with this meal!

Canine, All Life Stages, with Supplements

Yields 5¾ pounds

43 calories/ounce

28 ounces ground pork, 12 percent fat

=== PAGE 400 ===
11 large eggs, shelled

19 ounces salmon

8 ounces canned or steamed pumpkin puree (not pumpkin pie filling)

8 ounces Brussels sprouts

4 ounces raw unsalted pumpkin seeds

3 ounces raw or frozen cranberries (no sugar added)

8 grams ground turmeric

8 grams dried thyme

5 grams salt

32 grams bonemeal

8 grams eggshell powder

2 grams kelp powder (containing 700 micrograms iodine per gram of

kelp, to provide a total of 1,400 micrograms of iodine if you choose to

use an iodine supplement rather than kelp powder)

Supplements

75 milligrams zinc

10 milligrams copper

54 milligrams iron

1,500 milligrams choline

200 milligrams magnesium

1 tablet vitamin B complex (B50, 50 milligrams), crushed

100 IU vitamin E

1. In a large bowl, mix food ingredients (except bonemeal, eggshell, and

kelp powders) together.

2. In a small bowl, mix powders and supplements together, stirring well.

3. Dust ½ the powder over food and mix very thoroughly. Add remaining

powder and mix thoroughly again.

=== PAGE 401 ===
4. Serve raw, poached, or gently cooked.

Cranberries for Cognition: Cranberries are rich in

anthocyanins and proanthocyanins, which give the berries

their color and may help memory recall, neural function, and

circulation of oxygen and glucose to the brain.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 402 ===
“Rojões de Porco”—Portuguese Pork Stew

=== PAGE 403 ===
iStock.com/dfli

Portugal is known for its pork, especially from the famous black Iberian

pig. Bobi loved any type of pork, but he preferred the finest, which means

=== PAGE 404 ===
muscle meat instead of ground. This Portuguese-inspired dish captures the

best of Portugal’s coastal climate with one of its beloved delicacies,

blending flavors together for a colorful, hearty stew.

Adult Canine Less Active, with Supplements

Yields 5½ pounds

37 calories/ounce

32 ounces (2 pounds) pork muscle meat, 95 percent lean

16 ounces raw spinach

9 ounces raw or canned sardines (packed in water)

4 large eggs, shelled

4 ounces sweet green peppers

4 ounces sweet red peppers

4 ounces fresh tomatoes

4 ounces carrots

4 ounces potatoes (with skin)

85 grams olive oil

8 grams fresh garlic

8 grams ground turmeric

12 grams eggshell powder

Supplements

1,125 micrograms iodine

8 milligrams copper

45 milligrams zinc

½ tablet vitamin B complex (B50, 50 milligrams), crushed

100 IU vitamin E

=== PAGE 405 ===
1. In a large bowl, mix food ingredients (except eggshell powder)

together.

2. In a small bowl, mix all supplements and eggshell powder together,

stirring well.

3. Dust ½ the powder over food and mix very thoroughly. Add remaining

powder and mix thoroughly again.

4. Serve raw, poached, or gently cooked.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 406 ===
Bison Kale Hash

=== PAGE 407 ===
We love bison! While it may be harder to find in some grocery stores—and

can be pricier than beef—it’s low in fat, packed with B vitamins, and has a

sweet, earthy flavor. Paired here with kale—which offers the body

sulforaphane and indole-3-carbinol, two anticancer compounds that are

released when cruciferous vegetables are chewed or chopped—your pet will

savor this tasty hash.

Adult Canine, Whole Foods

Yields 6 pounds

40 calories/ounce

50 ounces (3.125 pounds) ground bison, 90 percent lean

9 large eggs, shelled

9 ounces kale

7 ounces bison liver

5 ounces green beans

5 ounces mushrooms (any type)

2 ounces raw or canned oysters (or 15 milligrams zinc + 100

milligrams magnesium supplement)

35 grams wheat germ oil (or 100 IU vitamin E supplement)

9 grams dried thyme

9 grams dried oregano

9 grams ground cinnamon

9 grams ground turmeric

9 grams ground fennel

5 grams nutritional yeast

13 grams eggshell powder

1.5 grams kelp powder (containing 700 micrograms of iodine per

gram. This is a total of 1,050 micrograms iodine if you choose to use

=== PAGE 408 ===
an iodine supplement rather than kelp powder.)

1. In a large bowl, mix food ingredients (except eggshell and kelp

powders) together.

2. In a small bowl, mix powders together, stirring well.

3. Dust ½ the powder over food and mix very thoroughly. Add remaining

powder and mix thoroughly again.

4. Serve raw, poached, or gently cooked.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 409 ===
Bison Buddha Bowl

=== PAGE 410 ===
Buddha bowls are all about balance. This bison-based bowl accomplishes

that and more, with fiber-rich radicchio as part of its base. This leafy

vegetable is a part of the chicory family, and has been found to be antiviral,

antioxidant, anti-inflammation, neuroprotective, and helpful against obesity.

Slow down and savor this colorful dish.

Adult Canine, Mostly Whole Foods

Yields 5¾ pounds

40 calories/ounce

50 ounces (3.125 pounds) ground bison, 90 percent lean

8 ounces radicchio

8 ounces mushrooms (any type)

4 large eggs, shelled

6 ounces bison liver

6 ounces salmon

3 ounces kiwi

2 ounces flaxseed and/or chia seeds

2 raw unsalted Brazil nuts

6 grams ground cinnamon

6 grams ground ginger

15 grams eggshell powder

1.5 grams kelp powder (containing 700 micrograms of iodine per

gram, for a total of 1,050 micrograms iodine)

Supplements

15 milligrams zinc

100 IU vitamin E

=== PAGE 411 ===
1. In a large bowl, mix food ingredients (except eggshell and kelp

powders) together.

2. In a small bowl, mix powders and supplements together, stirring well.

3. Dust ½ the powder over food and mix very thoroughly. Add remaining

powder and mix thoroughly again.

4. Serve raw, poached, or gently cooked.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 412 ===
Bison Autumn Harvest

=== PAGE 413 ===
Bison liver is nutrient dense and full of minerals, as well as vitamins A, D3,

K2, and E, which are hallmarks of an ancestral diet. While it may be harder

to find than beef liver, it’s worth it. Pair it with vegetables like butternut

squash and Brussels sprouts for a complete, balanced, and colorful autumn

harvest, any time of the year.

Canine Growth, Whole Foods

Yields 6¼ pounds

44 calories/ounce

50 ounces (3.125 pounds) ground bison, 90 percent lean

6 large eggs, shelled

9 ounces bison liver

6 ounces sardines packed in water, drained

6 ounces butternut squash

6 ounces Brussels sprouts

4 ounces raw or canned oysters (or substitute 45 milligrams zinc

supplement)

2.5 ounces raw sunflower seeds

2 ounces fresh or frozen cranberries (no sugar added)

1 ounce beef spleen (or 18 milligrams iron supplement)

30 grams wheat germ oil (or 100 IU vitamin E supplement)

9 grams ground cinnamon

9 grams dried thyme

9 grams ground cloves

6 grams salt

3 grams nutritional yeast

44 grams bonemeal

=== PAGE 414 ===
3 grams kelp powder (containing 700 micrograms of iodine per gram.

This is a total of 2,100 micrograms iodine if using an iodine

supplement rather than kelp powder.)

1. In a large bowl, mix food ingredients (except bonemeal and kelp

powder) together.

2. In a small bowl, mix powders together, stirring well.

3. Dust ½ the powder over food and mix very thoroughly. Add remaining

powder and mix thoroughly again.

4. Serve raw, poached, or gently cooked.

Cranberries for Oral Health: Among their many benefits,

cranberries slow the growth of the biofilm of Porphyromonas

gingivalis and Fusobacterium nucleatum, two bacterial strains

that help oral plaque form. In fact, cranberries may help

inhibit plaque formation by up to 95 percent.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 415 ===
Bison Schnitzel with Green Beans

=== PAGE 416 ===
Schnitzel is a thin slab of tenderized meat, breaded and fried. We skip the

breading and frying here and offer up our bison-based version: light on

meaty flavor, yet still tender and juicy. Because of its low-fat content, bison

becomes well-done fast, so be sure to keep an eye on it as it cooks—or

serve raw.

Adult Canine Less Active, Mostly Whole Foods

Yields 6 pounds

44 calories/ounce

50 ounces (3.125 pounds) ground bison, 90 percent lean

6 large eggs, shelled

6 ounces bison liver

6 ounces fresh green beans

8 ounces raw or canned sardines (packed in water, drained)

5 ounces mushrooms (any type)

4 ounces raw sunflower seeds

4 ounces fresh tomatoes

3 ounces raw or canned oysters (or 30 milligrams zinc supplement + 1

gram salt)

8 grams dried parsley

8 grams ground thyme

8 grams ground ginger

5 grams nutritional yeast

20 grams eggshell powder

2 grams kelp powder (containing 700 micrograms of iodine per gram,

for a total of 1,400 micrograms iodine)

=== PAGE 417 ===
Supplement

1,500 milligrams choline

1. In a large bowl, mix food ingredients (except eggshell and kelp

powders) together.

2. In a small bowl, mix powders and supplements together, stirring well.

3. Dust ½ the powder over food and mix very thoroughly. Add remaining

powder and mix thoroughly again.

4. Serve raw, poached, or gently cooked.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 418 ===
Mango Coconut Curry with Whitefish,

Lamb, and Egg

=== PAGE 419 ===
This meal is a sweet and savory treat for pets, with mangos, coconut, and a

bounty of new flavors from ginger and curry powder. Ginger is one of the

richest nutritional sources of manganese, an essential nutrient that helps

build collagen, strengthens ligaments and tendons, and assists with

metabolism and mitochondrial function. “Whitefish” is a blanket term for

=== PAGE 420 ===
many types of flaky, white fish, so choose what you like, but we love cod,

tilapia, flounder, sole, halibut, snapper, catfish, haddock, and grouper.

Adult Canine, with Supplements

Yields 4¾ pounds

40 calories/ounce

25 ounces fresh whitefish

1 pound ground lamb

9 large eggs, shelled

6 ounces cauliflower

4 ounces fresh mango

4 ounces sweet red peppers

2 ounces dried, unsweetened coconut meat, flaked or shredded

1.5 ounces fresh basil

7 grams mild curry powder

7 grams ground ginger

9 grams nutritional yeast

10 grams eggshell powder

1 gram kelp powder (containing 700 micrograms of iodine per gram of

kelp powder. This is a total of 700 micrograms iodine if you are using

an iodine supplement rather than kelp powder.)

Supplements

45 milligrams zinc

4 milligrams copper

100 milligrams magnesium

18 milligrams iron

100 IU vitamin E

=== PAGE 421 ===
1. In a large bowl, mix food ingredients (except eggshell and kelp

powders) together.

2. In a small bowl, mix powders and supplements together, stirring well.

3. Dust ½ the powder over food and mix very thoroughly. Add remaining

powder and mix thoroughly again.

4. Serve raw, poached, or gently cooked.

Choose Your Curry: Curry powders come in mild, medium,

and hot, and some contain onion powder. Look for onion-free,

mild curry powder when sharing with your pets. Animal

studies show curry protects against oxidative stress on the

brain, heart, kidneys, and nervous system, so it’s an all-around

smart addition for an overall bump in organ protection.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 422 ===
Upgraded Shepherd’s Pie with Whitefish

=== PAGE 423 ===
Also known in the United Kingdom as cottage pie, shepherd’s pie is as

comforting as meat loaf—but with veggies for a nutritional boost. Here,

we’ve taken out the potatoes and minced meat—typical ingredients in

shepherd’s pie—and added whitefish and powerful parsnips, a cream-

colored root vegetable rich in prebiotic fiber, vitamin C, and polyacetylenes,

chemical compounds with anticancer benefits.

Adult Canine, with Supplements

Yields 4¼ pounds

36 calories/ounce

25 ounces fresh whitefish

1 pound ground lamb

5 large eggs, shelled

4 ounces carrots

4 ounces parsnips

4 ounces fresh or frozen peas

4 ounces fresh tomatoes

8 grams dried thyme

8 grams ground turmeric

5 grams nutritional yeast

9 grams eggshell powder

1 gram kelp powder (containing 700 micrograms of iodine per gram of

kelp powder. This is a total of 700 micrograms iodine if you are using

an iodine supplement rather than kelp powder.)

Supplements

4 milligrams copper

30 milligrams zinc

=== PAGE 424 ===
100 IU vitamin E

1. In a large bowl, mix food ingredients (except eggshell and kelp

powders) together.

2. In a small bowl, mix powders and supplements together, stirring well.

3. Dust ½ the powder over food and mix very thoroughly. Add remaining

powder and mix thoroughly again.

4. Serve raw, poached, or gently cooked.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 425 ===
Lebanese Lamb and Whitefish with Green

Beans

=== PAGE 426 ===
Lebanese cuisine has evolved over time, but Mediterranean-inspired menus

featuring fresh fish, chickpeas, and colorful vegetables are still staples. Here

we offer a nutrient-rich meal with carrots, green beans, celery, and

hempseeds. The tomatoes add some juiciness and lycopene, whose

=== PAGE 427 ===
antioxidant properties can reduce the risk of chronic diseases such as cancer

and heart disease, and nourish eye health.

Rodney’s family comes from Lebanon, so this dish holds a special place

in our hearts.

Adult Canine Less Active, with Supplements

Yields 4¾ pounds

37 calories/ounce

1.5 pounds (25 ounces) fresh whitefish

1 pound ground lamb

11 large eggs, shelled

6 ounces fresh green beans

3 ounces fresh tomatoes

3 ounces celery

3 ounces carrots

12 grams raw hulled hempseeds

8 grams ground turmeric

7 grams ground cinnamon

6 grams fresh garlic

4 grams nutritional yeast

4 grams ground black pepper

11 grams eggshell powder

1 gram kelp powder (containing 700 micrograms of iodine per gram of

kelp powder. This is a total of 700 micrograms iodine if you are using

an iodine supplement rather than kelp powder.)

Supplements

=== PAGE 428 ===
6 milligrams copper

45 milligrams zinc

200 milligrams magnesium

18 milligrams iron

100 micrograms vitamin B12

100 IU vitamin E

1. In a large bowl, mix food ingredients (except eggshell and kelp

powders) together.

2. In a small bowl, mix powders and supplements together, stirring well.

3. Dust ½ the powder over food and mix very thoroughly. Add remaining

powder and mix thoroughly again.

4. Serve raw, poached, or gently cooked.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 429 ===
Whitefish, Lamb, and Egg Supreme

=== PAGE 430 ===
Our least complex recipe, with only a handful of whole-food ingredients in

this supplemented version. Don’t let its simplicity deceive you; this meal is

rich in choline from eggs, vitamin E from fiber-rich asparagus, and minerals

(including selenium) from whitefish. Lamb is great for pets with allergies or

food sensitivities, as it typically causes fewer reactions than beef or chicken

and it’s higher in omega-3s than beef because sheep convert fatty acids

more effectively from the foods they eat.

Adult Cat and Adult Cat Less Active, with Supplements

Yields 4½ pounds

41 calories/ounce

22 ounces fresh whitefish

12 large eggs, shelled

18 ounces ground lamb

7 ounces asparagus

14 grams nutritional yeast

1 gram salt

10 grams eggshell powder

0.5 grams kelp powder (containing 700 micrograms of iodine per gram

of kelp powder. This is a total of 350 micrograms iodine if you are

using an iodine supplement rather than kelp powder.)

Supplements

2,500 milligrams choline

60 milligrams zinc

2,000 milligrams taurine

54 milligrams iron

4 milligrams copper

100 milligrams magnesium

8 milligrams manganese

=== PAGE 431 ===
400 micrograms folic acid

100 IU vitamin E

1,485 milligrams potassium

1. In a large bowl, mix food ingredients (except eggshell and kelp

powders) together.

2. In a small bowl, mix powders and supplements together, stirring well.

3. Dust ½ the powder over food and mix very thoroughly. Add remaining

powder and mix thoroughly again.

4. Serve raw, poached, or gently cooked.

Note: This photo series shows you a shorthand version of how to poach

this recipe. For more detailed instructions on poaching, turn to here.

=== PAGE 432 ===
OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 433 ===
Traditional Fish, Tomato, and Rice Stew

=== PAGE 434 ===
While we don’t regularly feed our pets carb-heavy meals, rice is a staple in

many cuisines around the world. If you have leftover rice, feed this stew—a

traditional Portuguese dish families often share with their pets—on

occasion.

Adult Canine Less Active, with Supplements

Yields 3 pounds

35 calories/ounce

24 ounces fresh whitefish

8 ounces fresh tomatoes

8 ounces carrots

8 grams fresh garlic

4 ounces cooked white rice

80 grams olive oil

20 unsalted raw almonds, crushed

15 grams bonemeal

Supplements

½ tablet vitamin B complex B50, (50 milligrams), crushed

1,000 milligrams choline

18 milligrams iron

4 milligrams copper

45 milligrams zinc

8 milligrams manganese

675 micrograms iodine

1. In a large bowl, mix food ingredients (except for bonemeal) together.

2. In a small bowl, mix all supplements and bonemeal powder together,

stirring well.

=== PAGE 435 ===
3. Dust ½ the powder over food and mix very thoroughly. Add remaining

powder and mix thoroughly again.

4. Serve raw, poached, or gently cooked.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 436 ===
Brazilian Chicken

=== PAGE 437 ===
This chicken dish is a delightful stew with some of the best flavors of South

America: coconut, ginger, and papaya, whose enzyme papain helps break

down proteins (hence the reason papaya juice is often used to tenderize

meat!), aids digestion, and reduces pain and swelling.

Adult Canine, with Supplements

Yields 5½ pounds

34 calories/ounce

3 pounds dark meat chicken without skin

8 ounces kale

4 large eggs, shelled

6 ounces raw or canned sardines (packed in water)

6 ounces chicken liver

5 ounces sweet red peppers

5 ounces papaya, raw, finely chopped

2 ounces unsweetened shredded coconut meat

7 grams raw ginger (or 5 grams dried ground ginger)

7 grams ground cloves

12 grams eggshell powder

2 grams kelp powder (containing 700 micrograms of iodine per gram

of kelp powder. This is a total of 1,400 micrograms iodine if you are

using an iodine supplement rather than kelp powder.)

Supplements

75 milligrams zinc

4 milligrams copper

1,000 milligrams choline

50 milligrams thiamine

=== PAGE 438 ===
100 IU vitamin

1. In a large bowl, mix food ingredients (except eggshell and kelp

powders) together.

2. In a small bowl, mix powders and supplements together, stirring well.

3. Dust ½ the powder over food and mix very thoroughly. Add remaining

powder and mix thoroughly again.

4. Serve raw, poached, or gently cooked.

Most Pets Are Chickened Out: Conventionally raised

chickens are mass-produced by the billions, creating cheap

leftover pieces and parts the pet food industry recycles into

pet food. Chicken meat is naturally high in omega-6 fatty

acids and doesn’t contain the anti-inflammatory omega-3s

(DHA and EPA), so over time chicken can become a pro-

inflammatory food. Chicken meals, in rotation with a variety

of other proteins, create excellent diversity, but we don’t

recommend a lifetime of high-omega-6 foods for overall

health.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 439 ===
“Canja”—Chicken Stew

=== PAGE 440 ===
Canja de galinha is a simple Portuguese and Brazilian stew made of

shredded chicken, rice, and a medley of vegetables. We’ve substituted the

rice for potatoes and used dark chicken meat, chicken breasts, and organ

meat for a full chicken feast that’s perfect for when your pet is feeling cold,

tired, sick—or needs an anytime pick-me-up meal!

Adult Canine Less Active, with Supplements

Yields 5¼ pounds

37 calories/ounce

18 ounces dark meat chicken without skin

18 ounces chicken breast with skin

10 large eggs, shelled

12 ounces cooked potatoes

8 ounces chicken gizzards

8 ounces chicken hearts

28 grams bonemeal

Supplements

10 grams fish oil with at least 250 milligrams EPA + DHA per gram

900 micrograms iodine

3 grams cod liver oil with added vitamins A & D

300 milligrams magnesium

6 milligrams copper

45 milligrams zinc

8 milligrams manganese

½ tablet vitamin B complex (B50, 50 milligrams), crushed

100 IU vitamin E

1. In a large bowl, mix food ingredients (except bonemeal) together.

2. In a small bowl, mix bonemeal and supplements together, stirring well.

=== PAGE 441 ===
3. Dust ½ the powder over food and mix very thoroughly. Add remaining

powder and mix thoroughly again.

4. Serve raw, poached, or gently cooked.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 442 ===
Part II

The Forever Home

The world around us is full of many beautiful things, but much of it

is toxic, with cars spewing carbon monoxide exhaust into the air

and microplastics made of polyethylene and polypropylene

polluting our waters. Our homes and yards may not be the safe

havens we imagine them to be; we spray lawns with pesticides that

target the nervous system, clean surfaces with semivolatile organic

compounds that destroy the microbiome, and wrap leftovers with

phthalates that disrupt the endocrine system. Our pets suffer the

consequences just as we do: many dogs’ daily chemical intake

=== PAGE 443 ===
(including chlorpyrifos, diazinon, and cypermethrin) is 22 percent

higher than recommended levels, while a household cat’s may be a

whopping 14–100 percent higher.

Keeping our pets safe starts with us detoxifying our homes, so in

these pages we’ve created recipes for household cleaners, lawn

care techniques, laundry detergents, home scents, first aid, and

more that will keep your pet free of the thousands of potentially

deadly chemicals they’re bombarded with daily. We’ve tried to

keep them as easy to make as possible, while still providing the

stain-, pest-, and dirt-fighting power you’re used to. All of this is

backed with science and uses easy-to-find ingredients that you may

already have around your house.

Here’s to cultivating a Forever Pet—beyond the food bowl.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 444 ===
Chapter 5

Indoor and Outdoor Recipes

=== PAGE 445 ===
Unless otherwise indicated, always follow these home-based

recipes exactly. Even though all ingredients are nontoxic, and we

have chosen them carefully for their many science-backed benefits,

combining, substituting, or omitting ingredients may make the

finished products unusable (though still likely safe). And

=== PAGE 446 ===
remember: keeping your home clean, yet green, is also good for

you, meaning more time with your beloved companion.

The cost of a green lawn and a pest-free garden is huge, and we

don’t mean in dollar terms. One of the most commonly used

chemical pesticides—glyphosate—increases the risks of cancer,

causes inflammation, disrupts hormonal function, and causes

cerebral dysfunction. The harm these toxins pose to the earth is just

as bad, with fertilized lawns polluting our waters, releasing nitrous

oxide into the air, and depleting the nutrients in the soil.

It’s time to toss the toxins and go natural, using the following

recipes we suggest.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 447 ===
All-Purpose Cleaner

Castile soaps are made from biodegradable nut- or plant-based oils (like

coconut, hemp, almond, and walnut oil), and while they contain lye (it helps

create suds), lye is entirely safe when used in soaps. We would never

recommend you let your pet lick or ingest lye-based soap, but if they come

into contact with it, they will not be poisoned.

Yields approximately 1½ cups

3 drops castile soap

1 cup filtered water

=== PAGE 448 ===
½ cup rubbing alcohol (70 percent)

Optional: 2–3 drops bergamot or lemon essential oil

1. Mix ingredients together and add to a spray bottle.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 449 ===
Disinfectant Spray

=== PAGE 450 ===
The citric acid in lemons is a natural biocide, but if you don’t want your

house to have that lemony fresh scent, you can swap lemon rinds for thirty

drops of an essential oil such as rosemary or clove oil. You can even use the

two in combination (fifteen drops of each). Both rosemary and clove oil—

alone and together—possess significant antimicrobial effects against the

bacterial strains Staphylococcus epidermidis, E. coli, and Candida albicans.

Yields approximately 1¾ cup

Rinds of 6 fresh lemons (or 2–3 tablespoons of lemon juice from each

lemon)

2 cups rubbing alcohol (70 percent)

Optional: 30 drops of lemon essential oil

1. Add lemon rinds to alcohol.

2. Infuse for 3 weeks in a tightly covered container to prevent

evaporation.

3. Pour off liquid into spray bottle.

4. Optional: If you like a stronger lemon scent, add 30 drops of lemon

essential oil to the bottle after infusion.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 451 ===
Tub/Tile/Sink Disinfecting Spray

Because bathrooms come in three types—dirty, really dirty, or really, really

dirty—we’ve provided three variations for this tub, tile, and sink

disinfecting cleaner.

Option One

This is best for light cleaning.

Yields approximately 1½ cups

=== PAGE 452 ===
6 ounces white vinegar or rubbing alcohol (70 percent)

6 ounces water

20 drops of essential oil of choice (including eucalyptus, rosemary,

peppermint, lemon, lavender, or others). You can mix any combination

of oils, up to 20 drops.

Mix ingredients together (do not mix vinegar and alcohol—choose one

or the other) and add to a spray bottle.

Option Two

This is best for light cleaning and brightening dirty grout. Unfortunately,

this mixture is not stable for long periods of time and won’t be as effective

if it’s exposed to light or air, so it’s best to make it right before cleaning.

Yields 1½ cups

6 ounces hydrogen peroxide

6 ounces water

20 drops of essential oil of choice (including eucalyptus, grapefruit

seed, rosemary, peppermint, lemon, lavender, or others). You can mix

any combination of oils, up to 20 drops.

1. Mix ingredients together and add to a spray bottle.

2. Spray directly on grout and let sit for a few minutes, then clean with a

stiff brush.

Option Three

=== PAGE 453 ===
This recipe is best on stained surfaces.

Baking soda

Hydrogen peroxide

1. Sprinkle sink, tub, or bathroom surface with baking soda.

2. Let sit for 1–2 minutes, then scrub with a brush, sponge, or washcloth.

3. Pour a small amount of hydrogen peroxide onto cloth, sponge, or brush

and continue scrubbing.

4. Let sit for 1–2 minutes (or longer for tough stains) then rinse with

water.

Essential Oil Essentials: Essential oils have a wide range of

attributes; some have significant antimicrobial qualities that

make them great for cleaning, while others function as

nature’s perfume, with scents that can calm the mind. Always

choose 100 percent pure, high-quality essential oils from

reputable companies you trust; they should never be synthetic.

Also, never apply essential oil directly to a pet’s skin. If

someone in your home is sensitive or allergic to essential oils,

we recommend not using them.

Eucalyptus oil: Can help improve seasonal allergies by

reducing the severity of allergic reactions.

Lemon oil: Has powerful antiviral effects.

Orange oil: Effective at minimizing anxiety and stress,

so it’s great for freshening up laundry, sheets, towels,

robes, and pillows.

=== PAGE 454 ===
Peppermint oil: A natural pest repellent for indoor

critters.

Thyme oil: A powerful antifungal that’s incredibly

effective against mold growth.

Rosemary oil

Clove oil

Neem oil: A highly effective insecticide.

Cedar oil: Repels ticks.

Catnip oil: See here.

Geranium oil: A terrific mosquito repellent.

Finally, do not use these essential oils around pets:

Tea tree oil can cause reactions in cats.

Pennyroyal oil can cause reactions in dogs.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 455 ===
Scrub Cleaner

Use this in sinks, on countertops, or anywhere that needs a good

nonabrasive scrub.

1 cup baking soda

1 cup castile soap

25–50 drops orange and/or lemon essential oil

25–50 drops rosemary and/or lemongrass essential oil

2 teaspoons vegetable glycerin

1. Add ingredients to a jar.

2. Mix well before using.

=== PAGE 456 ===
OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 457 ===
Stone Counter Cleaner

Use this to clean up stains—big and small—on your granite, marble, and

more.

Yields approximately 2½ cups

2 cups water

½ cup rubbing alcohol

3–5 drops castile soap

Optional: ½ ounce colloidal silver

Optional: 3 drops essential oil

=== PAGE 458 ===
1. Mix well in a spray bottle.

2. Spray directly on the stain and wipe clean with a soft cloth.

Cats Are Canaries in a Coal Mine: A recent study looked at

cats’ and dogs’ serum, whole blood, hair, and urine levels after

exposure to common pollutants polychlorinated biphenyls,

polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs), organochlorine

pesticides, fungicides, organophosphorus flame retardants,

and melamine. Across the board, cats’ levels were higher

because they can’t metabolize many of these chemicals.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 459 ===
Floor Cleaner

Use this on tile floors to mop up stains and dust, or for general cleaning.

Yields approximately 5½ cups

4 cups water

1 cup white vinegar

½ cup rubbing alcohol (70 percent)

Optional: 3 drops essential oil of your choosing

Mix well in a jar or bucket and apply to floors with a mop. There is no

need to rinse floors after cleaning.

=== PAGE 460 ===
OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 461 ===
Wood Floor Cleaner

Almost all floors are heavily colonized by bacteria, including fecal bacteria,

and most floors have several strains of antibiotic-resistant bacteria. Use this

on wood floors to mop up stains, dust, and—yes—nasty bacteria.

Yields approximately 5 cups

4 cups water

¼ cup white vinegar

1 teaspoon olive oil

Optional: 5 drops essential oil

Mix well in a jar or bucket and apply to floors with a mop. There is no

need to rinse floors after cleaning.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 462 ===
Furniture Polish

Wood finishes can be delicate, so test this polish on an inconspicuous part

of your furniture before you use it.

Yields just over ⅓ cup

¼ cup white vinegar

2 tablespoons olive oil

2–4 drops lemon oil

1. Mix in spray bottle or small jar.

2. Apply to wood surface with clean cloth and wipe clean.

=== PAGE 463 ===
Furniture Polish Can Be a Toxic Brew: Many commercial

furniture polishes contain aromatic solvents (benzene,

toluene), phenol, petroleum distillates (also called naphthas or

mineral spirits), silicones, synthetic polymers,

cyclotetrasiloxane, and turpentine. Benzene is a known

carcinogen, mineral spirits can damage DNA, and

cyclotetrasiloxane can cause reproductive and developmental

issues. Spray furniture polish contains hydrocarbons (an

organic compound made of carbon and hydrogen), which—

when inhaled—can cause blurred vision, low blood pressure,

vomiting, and more.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 464 ===
Scented Room Spray

=== PAGE 465 ===


=== PAGE 466 ===


=== PAGE 467 ===
While our simmer pot recipes are great for making large spaces (or even

your whole house) smell terrific, this room spray fits the bill for smaller

spaces or single rooms.

Yields 2 cups

1 cup water

1 cup witch hazel, 100 proof (or above) vodka, or perfumer’s alcohol

10 (or more, per your smell preference) drops essential oil (one oil

alone or any combination of lemon, lime, orange, lavender, grapefruit,

chamomile, bergamot, clary sage, rosemary, lemongrass, ginger,

marjoram, frankincense, linden blossom, or others). Karen’s favorite

combo is clove, orange, and linden blossom. You can also fill the

bottle with your favorite herbs and peels.

1. Combine ingredients in spray bottle.

2. Shake well and spray.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 468 ===
Glass Cleaner

This glass cleaner uses vinegar, one of our favorite ingredients for green

cleaning. You can also use it as a rinse aid (just add it where the rinse aid

usually goes), to clean drains (pour ½ cup baking soda into your drain, then

follow with 1 cup white vinegar and flush with warm water when the

foaming stops), as a spray for cleaning stainless steel, and more.

Yields approximately 1½ cups

1 cup water

¼ cup white vinegar

¼ cup rubbing alcohol

Add to a spray bottle and mix well.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 469 ===
Laundry Detergent

Wash your pet’s toys, beds, sweaters, and more with this highly effective,

nontoxic detergent.

Yields 1 gallon, or approximately 64 regular loads

1 cup baking soda

¼ cup sea salt

Scant 1 gallon warm water

1 cup liquid castile soap

Optional: 25–50 drops essential oils of your choice (tea tree,

lemongrass, lemon, peppermint, lavender, etc.)

=== PAGE 470 ===
1. Combine baking soda and salt in an empty gallon-sized jug.

2. Add 2 cups of warm water and swirl/shake to dissolve.

3. Add castile soap and swirl to combine.

4. Add essential oils, if using.

5. Fill jug with additional warm water until water reaches the top.

Use ¼ cup per regular-sized load.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 471 ===
Dryer Sheets

If you like your clothes to smell fresh when they come out of the dryer,

know that the “fresh” smell your clothes soak up from conventional dryer

sheets actually comes from a harmful chemical additive. If you don’t smell

the “fresh” scent, it’s because a “masking” chemical was used to cover it

up. Try these nontoxic dryer sheets instead.

=== PAGE 472 ===
½ cup white vinegar

1 cup water

15–20 drops essential oils of your choice (orange, lemon, and lavender

are good options)

1. Combine ingredients in a glass jar with a tight-fitting lid.

2. Place several washcloths or cut-up T-shirts in jar to saturate.

3. Put one cloth into each load in the dryer.

4. Once dry, place the cloth back in the jar to remoisten.

Cleaning Laundry Isn’t Clean: The average American

family washes eighty pounds of laundry a week, and—if

they’re using conventional products—the toxins from their

laundry spill into the water table and move into the air. Here’s

a sampling of some of the harmful chemicals in laundry

detergent and dryer sheets:

Nonylphenol ethoxylates (NPEs): These disrupt endocrine

system functioning, may harm fetal development, and may cause

organ dysfunction. They’ve already been banned in the European

Union and Canada but persist in the US.

Linear alkyl benzene sulfonates (LAS): When they are

produced, they release carcinogens and toxins such as

benzene into the environment. There is evidence they

may also promote the growth of colon cancer cells.

1,4-dioxane: This is a solvent that may irritate the skin,

eyes, and respiratory tract, as well as cause damage to the

liver and kidneys. It’s now considered by scientists to be

a contaminant of real concern due to its prevalence in

=== PAGE 473 ===
groundwater, but, unfortunately, cleaning it up is difficult

due to its chemical properties.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 474 ===
Fabric Deodorizer

Stinky clothes, sheets, furniture, or towels you don’t have time to wash?

Skip the store-bought sprays (they’re toxic) and try this. Bonus! This recipe

also works great as an ant deterrent and bug spray. Just don’t use this on

granite, stone, or houseplants because the vinegar can cause damage.

Yields approximately 1 cup

=== PAGE 475 ===
1 cup white vinegar

5 drops essential oils (We like lemon, rosemary, lemongrass, or

lavender. If you like a stronger scent, add more drops.)

Optional: Instead of essential oils, you can infuse vinegar with citrus

peels and herbs. Add as many as you like, depending on your scent

preferences.

To use as a spray:

1. Pour vinegar into a new mister or spray bottle.

2. Add essential oils, herbs, or peels. Note: If you are using peels or

herbs, fill a glass quart jar halfway with peels and/or herbs. Pour

vinegar into jar and let steep for 8–10 days. Then strain out peels or

herbs and pour into bottle.

3. Shake well and spray.

To use as a room deodorizer:

Fill bowl with white vinegar and essential oils or infused vinegar.

Place bowl in the room that needs freshening.

Use New Bottles: Never pour vinegar into a used or old

cleaning bottle because trace amounts of the cleaner may be

left behind in the plastic, and that may create harmful vapors.

Always use a new bottle.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 476 ===
Carpet Powder Deodorizer

The most common ingredient in commercial carpet powders is

perchloroethylene, a known carcinogen that can also cause cognitive and

neurological impairment. When you vacuum it up, it becomes airborne and

can be inhaled. If you want to freshen up your carpet, skip the toxins and try

this easy-to-make powder.

Yields approximately 2 cups

=== PAGE 477 ===
2 cups baking soda

25–40 drops of your favorite essential oil, in any combination

1. Mix baking soda and essential oils in a bowl and mix with a whisk

until chunks are removed.

2. Pour into a glass jar and let sit for 20 minutes.

3. Sprinkle on carpet before vacuuming.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 478 ===
Carpet Cleaner

Having pets and carpets means stains. Use this cleaner to clean up anything

you, your pet, or your housemates get on your carpet.

Yields approximately 1¼ cups

¼ cup white vinegar

1 cup warm water

1 teaspoon clear dish soap

As needed: Baking soda (dependent on size of area to be treated)

1. Mix vinegar, water, and soap in a spray bottle.

2. Sprinkle a generous layer of baking soda over the stain to completely

cover the area.

3. Allow the baking soda to dry. Then vacuum.

4. Spray the liquid solution over the stain.

5. Use a clean, damp white cloth to blot the stain until no baking soda

residue remains.

6. Rinse with warm water and blot with a cloth repeatedly until all

residue is gone.

7. Repeat the above process as needed to completely remove the stain.

8. If any soap or baking soda residue remain, use a mixture of three parts

water, one part white vinegar to rinse and blot.

=== PAGE 479 ===
Remember to Vacuum: We love this green carpet cleaner,

but you should also vacuum any carpet in your house at least

once a week to remove the dust mites, dander, cockroach

allergens, pollution, mold spores, pesticides, and toxic gases

that stick to carpets and settle in them. All of these increase

your risk of developing mild cognitive problems, allergies and

irritation, and asthma.

The American Lung Association and US Environmental

Protection Agency (EPA) also recommend using a high-

efficiency particulate air (HEPA) filter on your vacuum and

having a professional deep clean your carpet annually.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 480 ===
Simmer Pot Home Scents

=== PAGE 481 ===
Commercial products used to “freshen” the home can be incredibly toxic.

Sadly, Rodney knows this firsthand because the ingredients in a diffuser

almost killed his dog, Shubie. Air fresheners, plug-ins, and many candles

contain volatile organic compounds, including formaldehyde, petroleum

distillates, limonene, esters, and alcohols. Air fresheners also contain

endocrine-disrupting chemicals, and these can lead to cancer, diabetes,

obesity, and metabolic syndrome. Try one of these nontoxic stovetop

fragrance combinations instead, adjusting the amounts to your preference.

Morning Rise and Shine

¼ cup roasted coffee beans or dried used grounds

3–4 cinnamon sticks

1–2 vanilla beans or 1 tablespoon vanilla extract

1–2 tablespoons cardamom

Winter Holiday

½ to 1 cup fresh cranberries

1 orange, sliced, with peel

3–4 cinnamon sticks

2 sprigs rosemary

1 tablespoon whole cloves

Fall Spice

1 apple, sliced or in chunks, with peel

=== PAGE 482 ===
1 tablespoon pumpkin spice or 3–4 chunks pumpkin rind

3–4 cinnamon sticks

1 tablespoon whole cloves

2–3 teaspoons nutmeg

1 tablespoon vanilla extract or 1–2 vanilla beans

Optional: replace water with apple cider

Spring Garden

2–3 limes or lemons, sliced with peel, or rinds

1–2 sprigs rosemary or thyme

2–3 sprigs mint

1-inch piece of ginger, sliced

Optional: lavender

1. For all scents, bring a small pot of water to a soft boil (or slow boil in a

Crock-Pot) and add one of the combinations above.

2. Reduce heat to simmer for 2–3 hours, allowing the aromas to fill your

home. Add additional water if necessary.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 483 ===
DIY, Budget-Friendly Air Purifier

=== PAGE 484 ===
Indoor air pollution—particularly from the chemicals acrolein and arsenic

—can lead to bladder cancer in both humans and dogs. Air purifiers with

HEPA filters are more effective at cleaning indoor air pollution than any

other kind of device, but they can be expensive (even up to $1,000). We

love this budget-friendly option for removing dust, pollen, chemicals,

smoke, dander, and more.

20-inch box fan

20x20-inch pleated white furnace/HVAC air filter (MERV-13 rating)

Clear packing tape

1. Place the air filter squarely against the back of the fan.

2. Use the packing tape to secure the filter to the fan, on all sides, making

sure there are no gaps.

3. Turn on the fan.

Other Ways to Clean the Air: If you don’t want to create

your own air filter, there are many other ways to effectively

rid the air in your home of toxins, allergens, and more.

Invest in a HEPA filter: They are able to remove at least

99.97 percent of allergens down to 0.3 microns in size. (For

reference, a strand of hair is 100 microns wide.) Note that a

HEPA filter doesn’t trap gases or microbes—only particles—

and you should always look for the words “true HEPA” or

“absolute HEPA,” which indicate that it meets US

government standards (see below).

Fill your house with pet-safe potted plants: The

microorganisms in potted plant soil can help remove

benzene (found in petroleum-based products),

=== PAGE 485 ===
trichloroethylene (found in paints, varnishes, and

more), and formaldehyde (found in insulation, paper

products, and much more). In fact, indoor plants can

remove as many as 97 percent of the most toxic

indoor pollutants in as little as eight hours. Having

potted plants in your home can also decrease carbon

monoxide levels by almost half, volatile organic

compound levels by 75 percent, and particulate matter

concentrations by 30 percent.

Open your windows: A well-ventilated house allows

gases from appliances to escape, as well as any dust,

pollutants, and contaminants that have built up.

Use natural, nontoxic products: When you use

products with harsh ingredients, you’re polluting the

environment and the air in your own home.

Keep your pets, litter box, and carpet clean:

Carpets harbor all kinds of pollutants and toxins.

Litter boxes that aren’t regularly cleaned can cause a

buildup of ammonia fumes in your house, and the

eggs from Toxoplasma gondii parasites in cat feces

can become airborne, which can lead to the illness

toxoplasmosis. Also, dogs can harbor dust, dirt, feces,

bacteria, and pollutants in their hair, which they can

spread into your home.

Add vegetables to your pet’s diet: Apiaceous

vegetables, including carrots, parsley, celery, and

parsnips, have been found to reduce the oxidative

stress caused by acrolein, a chemical found in car

exhaust and cigarette smoke. Feeding your pet these

=== PAGE 486 ===
veggies may help their liver convert and excrete

acrolein from the body.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 487 ===
Ant Spray

Got ants, and they’re not ant farm pets? If you choose, you can include

patchouli oil in this spray, which is more than 80 percent effective at

repelling three different species of urban ants!

2 cups vinegar (either white or apple cider vinegar will work)

1 cup water

1 tablespoon clear dish soap

15–20 drops essential oil (peppermint, patchouli, and/or cedarwood)

1. Mix all ingredients together and pour into a spray bottle.

2. Shake before using.

=== PAGE 488 ===
OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 489 ===
Weed Remover

Cinnamon oil is a champion weed killer, and scientists even recommend it

as a promising alternative to chemical herbicides. We love the smell, too!

Yields approximately 1 quart

1 quart white vinegar (10–20 percent acetic acid)

1 ounce orange essential oil

½ ounce cinnamon essential oil

1. Mix together in a large spray bottle.

2. Spray weeds directly with solution in the heat of the day, in direct

sunlight, preferably when temperatures are above 70°F. The solution

=== PAGE 490 ===
works best when the soil is dry, so don’t apply it the day rain is

forecasted.

3. Keep pets off of sprayed areas until dry, as solution can be irritating to

the skin when it’s wet.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 491 ===
Chapter 6

Recipes for the Body

=== PAGE 492 ===


=== PAGE 493 ===
From their paws to their ears to their coats, pets’ bodies need

special attention. Most pet grooming products contain a long list of

potentially irritating ingredients you can’t pronounce, along with a

hefty dose of synthetic fragrances. These easy recipes make

grooming safer, because they’re made with clean and simple

ingredients.

Cat Bathing Tips: Most cats hate baths, so do a nail trim the

day before a bath and have everything ready before you put

your cat in the sink. Then:

Enlist a friend: It’s fastest if two people are involved—a

holder and a washer.

Dilute the shampoo: It spreads quickly through your

cat’s fur and rinses out faster. Add a small amount of

Simple Shampoo (about ¼ cup) and an additional 2 cups

of warm water to a separate jar, then mix well.

Put an old towel in the bottom of the sink (cats feel

safer if their feet don’t slide).

Make sure the water pressure coming out of the faucet

sprayer is set to low-medium and the water

temperature is warm, not hot.

After washing, rinse well. Wrap kitty in a towel, and

cuddle in a warm place until dry.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 494 ===
Simple Shampoo

=== PAGE 495 ===
¼ cup pure castile soap

½ cup water

1 teaspoon melted coconut oil

1. Combine all ingredients and mix well.

2. Thoroughly wet your dog’s coat, then rub the shampoo into the fur and

down to the skin, avoiding the face and ears.

3. Rinse thoroughly.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 496 ===
Shampoo for Itchy Skin

With soothing, yeast-fighting coconut oil, inflammation-fighting geranium

oil, and calming lavender oil, this shampoo is sweet relief for itchy skin.

¼ cup pure castile soap

½ cup water

1 teaspoon melted coconut oil

10 drops lavender essential oil

10 drops geranium essential oil

1. Combine all ingredients and mix well.

2. Thoroughly wet your pet’s coat, then rub the shampoo into the fur and

down to the skin, avoiding the face and ears.

3. Rinse thoroughly.

Try Carbonated Water: Carbonated water can also be an

effective remedy for itchy skin because it increases blood

flow but does not negatively affect any skin functions.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 497 ===
Coat Conditioner

This conditioner is moisturizing, soothing, and smells like a dream. Use it

following a good shampooing.

Yields ⅓ cup

1 tablespoon melted coconut oil

1 tablespoon oil of your choosing (jojoba, argan, olive, or avocado)

1 tablespoon honey

1 tablespoon water or tea of your choice (we love rosemary)

1 tablespoon arrowroot powder

1. Combine all ingredients and mix well.

2. Apply to your dog’s coat after shampooing and rinsing, avoiding the

face and ears.

3. Leave on for 5–10 minutes, then rinse thoroughly.

Store in the refrigerator for up to three days.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 498 ===
Flea Shampoo

This all-natural shampoo is incredibly effective against fleas, but—like all

flea remedies—it may not provide 100 percent coverage, so keep flea

combing your pet and vacuuming daily.

Yields approximately 1½ cups

1 cup simmering water

Green tea bag

Peppermint tea bag

½ cup pure castile soap

=== PAGE 499 ===
¼ cup aloe vera gel

20 drops neem oil

Optional: 10 drops lavender or lemongrass essential oil

1. Bring water to a boil in a saucepan.

2. Steep tea in boiling water.

3. Remove tea bags and let cool.

4. Add castile soap and remaining ingredients and mix well.

5. Bathe your animal, avoiding eyes, nose, mouth, and ear canals. Lather

well, working shampoo over entire body. Rinse well.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 500 ===
Probiotic Rinse for Itchy Pets

This rinse is a great solution for itchy, irritated pet skin. If the problem

doesn’t clear up, or if your pet is in distress, always see your veterinarian,

as itchy skin may be a sign of an underlying condition.

Yields approximately 3 cups

½ cup plain kombucha tea

1 cup green tea

1 cup peppermint tea

½ cup witch hazel

½ tablespoon colostrum powder

=== PAGE 501 ===
1 teaspoon probiotic powder (spore-forming/soil-based probiotic

powder is best)

1. Combine ingredients in a bowl, mixing well. Or put mixture into a

spray bottle.

2. Pour or spray over your pet from the neck down. Avoid the eyes.

3. Rub into skin and towel dry. Do not rinse.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 502 ===
DIY Mosquito Spray

=== PAGE 503 ===
Cats love catnip (it’s soothing to their skin), but mosquitoes hate it. Catnip

contains nepetalactol, a chemical substance that spurs an uncomfortable

sensation inside mosquitoes, thus repelling them. Use this spray on yourself

or your pets anytime you go outdoors.

Yields approximately 2½ cups

2 cups water

¼ cup lemon juice

4 tablespoons vanilla extract

20 drops catnip oil

1. Mix ingredients in misting spray bottle.

2. Shake before using. Mist body (not head) prior to outdoor adventures.

Reapply every 2 hours while outside.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 504 ===
DIY Pest Spritz

Neem oil, which comes from the neem tree (an evergreen native to India),

fights insects by slowing their growth, smothering them, preventing

molting, and interfering with their hormones, making it more difficult for

them to reproduce. Vanilla also functions as a deterrent, and aloe vera gel

emulsifies the mixture for even distribution.

Yields approximately 1¼ cups

1 teaspoon neem oil

1 teaspoon vanilla extract

1 cup witch hazel

¼ cup aloe vera gel

=== PAGE 505 ===
1. Add all ingredients to a spray bottle and shake vigorously until

ingredients are mixed well.

2. Shake well prior to each use and immediately spritz over dog (avoid

the eyes!).

3. Repeat every 4 hours while outdoors and make a fresh batch every 2

weeks.

Pest Hacks: One of Karen’s favorite ways to safeguard her

dogs against pests is to put an all-natural pest spray on

bandanas so that it doesn’t leave their coats stinky or sticky.

Know that no matter how you treat your dog against pests,

though, you should always use a comb to check them for

ticks and fleas when they come inside. Fleas are a nuisance

that can cause tapeworms or flea allergy dermatitis, and you

can remove them with a flea shampoo or flea comb. But ticks

can be life-threatening, so check behind their ears, in their

paw pads, under their legs, and anywhere else that ticks like to

burrow. No pesticide or natural deterrent is 100 percent

effective.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 506 ===
Coat Refresher Skin Spray

Use this spray between baths to freshen up your pet’s stinky fur.

Yields 2–3 cups, depending on optional add-ins

½ cup apple cider vinegar

½ cup green tea

1 cup distilled water

Optional:

½ cup peppermint tea

½ cup calendula tea

5 drops lavender essential oil

=== PAGE 507 ===
1. Combine ingredients and mix well.

2. Pour into a spray bottle.

3. Shake well and spritz as needed to keep the coat refreshed.

4. Store mixture in the refrigerator for up to a month.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 508 ===
Simple Eye Wash

Keeping your pets eyes clean is a necessary way to remove irritants and

allergens. Many pets have fur that contributes to eye irritation, and they rely

on us to remove the debris that collects in the corners of their eyes. Once a

day, if needed, you can use a damp clean cloth, pure colloidal silver, or a

wash like this to disinfect and clean out any goop that’s accumulated. If

your pet still has eye boogers, apply a tiny dab of coconut oil where crust

and discharge tend to accumulate; they’ll come off like a breeze tomorrow.

Yields approximately ½ cup

¼ cup organic no-tears baby shampoo

¼ cup distilled water

=== PAGE 509 ===
1. Mix ingredients in a clean jar.

2. Add 1 teaspoon to a clean moistened washcloth or disposable cotton

pad to gently clean the fur around the eyes. Repeat until all debris has

been removed. Finish by wiping around eyes with pure water.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 510 ===
Ear Cleaner

Your pet’s L-shaped ear canals make it hard for debris to exit—and easy for

bacteria and fungi to grow, especially if the ears are moist—but this cleaner

can help. Please don’t use any narrow pointy tools to clean the inner ear,

however, as they can rupture the eardrum. Also be aware that scratching,

rubbing, redness, tilting the head in one direction, discharge, or odor can be

signs of inflammation or a serious infection. Take your pet to the

veterinarian if you notice any of these behaviors.

Yields approximately ⅔ cup

⅓ cup witch hazel

3 tablespoons hydrogen peroxide

1 tablespoon apple cider vinegar

=== PAGE 511 ===
1 tablespoon colloidal silver

1. Thoroughly mix ingredients in a bowl.

2. Pour over cotton rounds in a clean, dry container with a tight lid.

Allow the liquid to fully saturate all the rounds.

3. Use as many rounds as needed to clean ears.

4. Use a dry cotton round when done to dry ear canal.

5. Store in a cool, dry place and make a fresh batch every week.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 512 ===
Toothpaste

=== PAGE 513 ===
Stinky breath—we’re slamming the door on you! This toothpaste contains

pomegranate extract, which has been found in studies to limit the growth of

certain bacterial biofilms that are involved in the development of

periodontal disease.

Yields approximately ¼ cup

2 tablespoons coconut oil

2 tablespoons baking soad

200mg pomegranate extract

Optional: 5 drops trace minerals

Optional: 2 drops clove essential oil

1. Pour the liquid coconut oil into a small bowl, or directly into a small

sealable container.

2. Add the baking soda or clay, pomegranate extract (open the capsule

and empty the powder in, or if in tablet form, crush the tablet and add

the powder), trace minerals, and essential oil (if using).

3. Mix well and pour into sealable container (if you haven’t already done

so).

4. Store tightly covered.

Improve Oral Health: Poor oral hygiene is a major health

risk for dogs and cats, leading to heart, kidney, and liver

disease, yet at least 80 percent of dogs over three years of age

have developed some form of periodontal disease. For cats,

rates may be higher (some studies estimate 96 percent of cats

have inflammation of the gums). Here’s how to make good

oral hygiene easier.

=== PAGE 514 ===
It’s important your dog or cat feels comfortable with your

hands touching their mouth, so incorporate gentle facial

strokes during daily cuddle time.

Once your pet is okay with having his face and gums

touched, the next step is to wrap a bit of gauze, a clean

scrap of thin cotton cloth, or a cotton round around your

finger, dab on a pea-sized amount of toothpaste, and rub

it over teeth and gums.

Start by brushing one tooth at a time with the gauze or

cotton until all teeth are clean. Later, transition to a finger

brush, then a soft pet toothbrush that’s the right size for

his mouth.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 515 ===
Dandelion Oil and Salve

=== PAGE 516 ===


=== PAGE 517 ===
Dandelion oil is liquid gold for your pet’s skin! While it’s been a traditional

Chinese medicine and Native American remedy for thousands of years,

recent studies have shown it can protect against cell damage from the sun

because it decreases reactive oxidative species (ROS) activity and absorbs

harmful UV rays. Use this for hot spots, cracked noses and pads, calloused

elbows, cuts and abrasions, and to clean your pets’ ears. You can also add

this oil to an ice cube tray, freeze, and use as a medicated ice pack.

Yields depend on how many dandelion flowers you use, as well as jar

size

Dandelion flower heads (see exact measurements for salve below)

Oil (any type such as olive oil, argan oil, or coconut oil—

measurements below)

1. Dry dandelion heads 24–48 hours or use dehydrator if in humid areas.

They must be totally dry to avoid fungal growth.

For oil:

1. Put flower heads in jar and lightly pack. Add oil, covering all the

flowers, and fill to top. Cap the jar.

2. If you have time: Let jar sit on a sunny, warm windowsill for 4–6

weeks. If it’s in direct sunlight, cover it with a paper bag to protect it

from UV rays. Strain flowers and use oil.

3. If you have less time: Place jar in the top of double boiler and let warm

(below 110°F) for 2 hours. Strain flowers, let cool, and seal (or use).

4. Or: If you don’t have a double boiler, place a metal ring from a mason

jar in the bottom of a saucepan, then place the filled jar on top of the

ring (so the jar is resting on the ring and not touching the bottom of the

pan). Add enough water to cover half of the jar and warm on low heat

(below 110°F) for 2 hours. Strain flowers, let cool, and seal (or use).

=== PAGE 518 ===
For salve:

1. Add ½ cup coconut oil and ⅓ cup dried dandelion flowers to a jar.

2. Place jar in the top of double boiler and let warm (below 110°F) for 2

hours.

3. Strain flowers, let cool, and seal (or use).

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 519 ===
Paw Protector Wax

Rodney lives in Canada, so he knows how snow, ice, and sidewalk salt can

damage delicate paw pads. We love this wax for its soothing, healing, and

protective qualities, and we recommend using it before a nasty ice storm

hurts your dogs’ paws. It also helps repel road salt. You can pour the wax

into decorative tins, muffin liners, or mason jars, tie them up with a bow,

and give them as great holiday gifts for the pups in your life.

Yields about 6 ounces

1 ounce beeswax

3 tablespoons coconut oil

=== PAGE 520 ===
3 tablespoons calendula oil

3 tablespoons avocado oil

10 drops lavender essential oil

Optional: calendula flowers

1. In a saucepan, combine beeswax, coconut oil, calendula oil, and

avocado oil over low heat until melted.

2. Pour into a container.

3. Add calendula flowers and essential oil and stir gently.

4. Let cool.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 521 ===
Paw Soak

Pets don’t wear shoes, so their paws collect whatever residues and

contaminants are in the environment. We love this soothing, detoxifying

paw soak, especially in the evening after all outdoor walks are done. If your

pooch is tiny, putting the solution in a 9x13-inch cake pan and soaking all

four paws at once works well.

Yields about 1 quart

1 quart water

4 organic green tea bags

¼ cup Epsom salt

½ cup organic, raw, unfiltered apple cider vinegar

1. Bring water to a boil, then remove from heat.

=== PAGE 522 ===
2. Add tea bags and salt, then stir well until salt is dissolved.

3. Let steep until cool.

4. Remove tea bags and add apple cider vinegar, stirring well.

5. Pour solution into a bowl that allows you to submerge one paw at a

time up to your dog’s wrist.

6. Allow the solution to penetrate through your dog’s fur (if possible for

30 seconds).

7. Remove paw and pat dry. Do not rinse.

8. Repeat for the other 3 paws.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 523 ===
Pet Wipes

Colloidal silver has potent antiseptic properties, which is why many

veterinarians use silver wound dressings and solutions to address a variety

of external ailments, including burns, skin wounds, and skin infections. And

it’s face-friendly, so we love it to clean out gunky ears and around the eyes.

Use these colloidal silver–based wipes on paws, ears, fur, butt, or anywhere

that needs cleaning.

1 cup water

3 tablespoons colloidal silver

1 tablespoon unscented castile soap

2 tablespoons coconut oil (above 76°F to liquefy)

Optional: 5 drops lavender essential oil

=== PAGE 524 ===
1 roll thick paper towels

1. Combine all liquid ingredients in a bowl or large measuring cup and

whisk.

2. Place the paper towels, without cardboard center, in a large glass jar or

a clean, recycled wipes container.

3. Pour the liquid over the paper towels to saturate.

4. Tear off one paper towel as needed.

5. Keep container tightly closed.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 525 ===
Authors’ Note

Like its prequel, The Forever Dog, this book is heavily referenced

with scientific studies, primary and secondary sources, and

=== PAGE 526 ===
additional resources. Some of these studies used human subjects,

but since pets’ and humans’ digestive tracts evolved at the same

time—unless noted—what’s good for us is likely good for them.

The Forever Dog Life also includes over 120 recipes and household

tips to promote your beloved companion’s longevity and overall

health and happiness. In the interest of keeping the pages and

photos as user-friendly as possible, we have listed the nutritional

analyses of the complete and balanced meals and all our citations

and references on the book’s website, www.foreverdog.com. As

with The Forever Dog, hosting the source material at our book

website also allows us to continually update our book’s scientific

backbone as it evolves and grows. Data changes, but your reading

experience doesn’t have to suffer for it. Instead, we want you to

focus 100 percent on learning how to support, nurture, and love

your Forever Dogs and Cats—today, tomorrow, and always.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 527 ===
Acknowledgments

This book was a huge team effort and would not have come

together without the people around us being so helpful and

supportive during its creation.

Our awesome teammate Bea Adams worked tirelessly on this

project, coordinating dozens of moving parts over many months

with endless photo shoots; we could not have done this project

without her. Dr. Susan Recker input endless nutrition numbers into

the Animal Diet Formulator, and the ever-patient Steve Brown

checked and rechecked nutrient values. We would not have

completed this dream of seeing real food recipes in print without

these three very committed people.

We were humbled that veterinary nutritionists Donna Raditic,

DVM, DACVIM (Nutrition) and Laura Gaylord, DVM, DACVIM

(Nutrition) so kindly volunteered to review recipes and nutritional

profiles. Having the support of veterinarians, worldwide, that are

using real food to treat and prevent real problems fed our desire to

create this “how to” manual.

Dog mom Sarah Mackeigan kept Shubie well exercised, well

fed, and well entertained, and our moms faithfully provided us with

delicious, healthy food, day after day. Our families and the Planet

Paws team did everything they could to help minimize distractions

so we could focus on this creation.

Our awesome online community, Inside Scoop.pet, was well

taken care of by our amazing team of admins, headed up by Renée

=== PAGE 528 ===
Morin (who has remained ever faithful from the beginning). And

you know your family really loves you when they volunteer to do

your customer service for all incoming inquiries. Thank you, Aunt

Jo.

We are grateful to our collaborator, Sarah Durand, who knew

the kitchen lingo we needed, and Leah Carlson-Stanisic, who

jumped in to help organize and lay out the thousands of pictures

Rodney and Bea created. Finally, Kim Witherspoon, Karen Rinaldi,

and Kirby Sandemeyer offered ongoing guidance throughout the

project. And thank you, Ann Becker, for being our faithful family

editor in chief.

Our relationships, both personal and professional, mean

everything to us. We are also grateful for you, and our growing,

compassionate tribe of worldwide animal advocates and pet parents

who share our common goal: creating the happiest, healthiest

animals possible because we know enough to make wiser choices.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 529 ===
In Honor of Our Forever Friends

=== PAGE 530 ===
Courtesy of the family and friends of The Forever Dog

=== PAGE 531 ===
OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 532 ===
Courtesy of the family and friends of The Forever Dog

=== PAGE 533 ===
OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 534 ===
Courtesy of the family and friends of The Forever Dog

=== PAGE 535 ===
OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 536 ===
OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 537 ===
Index

A specific form of pagination for this digital edition has been developed to

match the print edition from which the index was created. If the application

you are reading this on supports this feature, the page references noted in

this index should align. At this time, however, not all digital devices support

this functionality. Therefore, we encourage you to please use your device’s

search capabilities to locate a specific entry.

(Page references in italics refer to illustrations.)

A

acrolein, 254, 255

activity level, feeding for, 155, 158, 159

adulteration of foods, degrees of, 12–14

advanced glycation end products (AGEs), 68, 73, 166, 167

advanced lipoxidation end products (ALEs), 27

African Stew, Beef and Chicken, 198, 199

air in home, cleaning, 255

Air Purifier, DIY, Budget-Friendly, 254

allergies:

food, 91, 226

histamine and, 145

seasonal, 241

All-Purpose Cleaner, 238

almond:

Banana Honey Tea Biscuits, 104, 104

butter, 101

flour, 101

=== PAGE 538 ===
Pill Pouch, 85, 85

alpha-linolenic acid (ALA), 27

anal glands, healthy expression of, 122

anise, 255

anthocyanin, 32, 65, 94, 118, 208

anti-inflammatory foods (list), 32

anti-nutrients, 28

Antioxidant Pupsicles, 110, 110

antioxidant-rich foods (list), 32

Ant Spray, 256

apiaceous vegetables, 100, 255

apigenin, 32.33, 72, 119

apoptosis, 109, 126

apple(s), 33

anal glands and, 122

Cinnamon Tarts, 105, 105

Fiber Smoothie, 122

Pork “Roast” with, 206, 207

Vegetable Wax Remover for, 21

Applesauce, 122, 122

Argentinian Beef with Chimichurri, 176, 177

arugula:

Garden-Fresh Goodness, 170, 171

sprouts, 64

asparagus, 33

Beef Spring Flavors, 182, 183

Whitefish, Lamb, and Egg Supreme, 226, 226–27, 227

Autumn Harvest, Bison, 216, 217

avocado(es), 23

California Beef, 178, 179

Deviled Eggs, 86, 86

B

baking sheets, 19

Banana Honey Tea Biscuits, 104, 104

=== PAGE 539 ===
banana(s):

Honey Tea Biscuits, 104, 104

flour, 101

Green, Biscotti, 96, 97

green, for gut health, 33, 97

Meatless Morsels, 91, 91

basil, 73, 109

sprouts, 64

bathing pets, 259–63

Coat Conditioner, 261

Flea Shampoo, 262

Probiotic Rinse for Itchy Pets, 263

Shampoo for Itchy Skin, 261

Simple Shampoo, 260

tips for cats, 259

beef:

Argentinian, with Chimichurri, 176, 177

Bourguignon with Mussels, 172, 172–73

and Broccoli, Basic, 168, 169

California, 178, 179

Celebration Cake, 94, 95

and Chicken, Ruby Red, 196, 197

and Chicken African Stew, 198, 199

and Chicken Forager’s Delight, 188, 188–89

and Chicken Gumbo, 190, 191

and Chicken Gyros, 194, 195

and Chicken Salad, Berry, 186, 187

and Chicken Stir-Fry, Chinese, 192, 193

and Chicken Surf and Turf, 200, 201

Detox Delights, 87, 87

Filipino Tinola Chicken and, 184, 185

Garden-Fresh Goodness, 170, 171

Indian, 180, 181

Mexican Fiesta, 174, 175

’n’ Cheese Pill Pouch, 85, 85

Spring Flavors, 182, 183

=== PAGE 540 ===
toppers, protein content of, 49, 49

beef spleen, for iron, 192

beetroot, 32

Indian Beef, 180, 181

Root Vegetable Super Stew, 138–39, 139

Ruby Red Beef and Chicken, 196, 197

Belly-Soothing Broth, 142

Berry Beef and Chicken Salad, 186, 187

beta-carotene, 32, 33, 50, 64, 65, 94, 171, 198

biological value, defined, 49

Biscotti, Green Banana, 96, 97

bison:

Autumn Harvest, 216, 217

Buddha Bowl, 214, 215

Kale Hash, 212, 213

Schnitzel with Green Beans, 218, 219

bite-sized treats, 83, 83–93

Avocado Deviled Eggs, 86, 86

Detox Delights, 87, 87

Immune Puree, 88, 88

Medication Marbles, 84, 84

Microbiome Morsels, 90, 90

Sneaky Easy Pill Pouches, 85, 85

Turkey Bites, Low-Fat, 89, 89

black seed oil (black cumin seed oil), 28

black tea, 149

blenders, 19, 19

blueberries, 32

Cognition Cubes, 111, 111

Blue Zone ’Sicles, 112, 112

bone broth:

Best, 140, 140–41

Low-Histamine, Quick and Easy, 145

bonemeal, 161

bones:

Gelatin (extra firm), 132, 132

=== PAGE 541 ===
Ginger, 102, 102

bones, raw, vs. bonemeal, 161

bowls, food and water, 16

brain (organ meat), 77

Brain-Building Broth, 143

Brazilian:

“Canja” Chicken Stew, 232, 233

Chicken, 230, 231

Brazil nuts, 32

Beef and Chicken African Stew, 198, 199

broccoli, 30, 32, 33

Beef and, Basic, 168, 169

dehydrating, 80

sprouts, 64

bromelain, 32, 122, 205

broths, 140–46

Belly-Soothing, 142

Bone, Best, 140, 140–41

Bone, Low-Histamine, Quick and Easy, 145

Brain-Building, 143

commercial, 113

for health, building, 142

Immune, 143

Leftover Longevity, 144, 144

Mushroom, Super-Immune, 146, 147

Brown, Steve, 156

Brussels sprouts, 33

Bison Autumn Harvest, 216, 217

Pork Pumpkin Patch, 208–9, 209

buckwheat flour:

Good Old-Fashioned Dog Biscuits, 99, 99

Herbed Cottage Crumpets, 104, 104

Himalayan Tartary, 99, 101

Buddha Bowl, Bison, 214, 215

butternut squash, in Bison Autumn Harvest, 216, 217

butyrate, 97

=== PAGE 542 ===
C

cabbage:

Pinches of Prebiotics, 117, 118

Pork “Roast” with Apples, 206, 207

red, sprouts, 65

Ruby Red Beef and Chicken, 196, 197

washing, 21

calcium carbonate, 161, 162

Calcium Powder, Eggshell, 52, 52

California Beef, 178, 179

Calming Tea, 149, 150

“Canja” Chicken Stew, 232, 233

cantaloupe, 32

carbonated water, as remedy for itchy skin, 261

carnosic acid, 72

Carpet Cleaner, 251

Carpet Powder Deodorizer, 250

carpets, keeping clean, 255

carrot(s), 32, 33, 255

Cake Cookies, 100, 100

cashew butter, 101

castile soaps, 238

catnip oil, as mosquito repellant, 264

cats:

bathing tips for, 259

exposure to common pollutants and, 243

feeding for life stages and activity levels, 155, 159

see also specific topics

cauliflower, 32, 33

Chinese Beef and Chicken Stir-Fry, 192, 193

Mango Coconut Curry with Whitefish, Lamb, and Egg, 220, 221

cedar oil, 241

Celebration Cake, 94, 95

celery, 33, 255

ceramic food and water bowls, 16

=== PAGE 543 ===
chaga mushrooms, 42, 42, 45, 45

charcoal, activated, 35

chicken:

and Beef African Stew, 198, 199

Beef and, Ruby Red, 196, 197

and Beef Forager’s Delight, 188, 188–89

and Beef Gumbo, 190, 191

and Beef Gyros, 194, 195

and Beef Salad, Berry, 186, 187

and Beef Stir-Fry, Chinese, 192, 193

and Beef Surf and Turf, 200, 201

Brazilian, 230, 231

can become pro-inflammatory over time, 231

Filipino Tinola Beef and, 184, 185

Jerky, Manuka-Glazed, 82, 82

omega-6 fatty acids in, 194, 231

Stew, “Canja,” 232, 233

toppers, protein content of, 49, 49

chicken eggs, 50

see also egg(s)

chicken liver, in Microbiome Morsels, 90, 90

chickpea flour, in Dr. Holly Ganz’s Prebiotic Cookies, 106, 106

Chinese Beef and Chicken Stir-Fry, 192, 193

chives, 70

chocolate, 22

choking hazards, 22, 23, 194, 197

choline, 48–49, 50, 59, 64, 84, 162, 173, 226

Choline Cognition Topper, 116, 116

Chutney, Cranberry Sardine, 117, 117

cilantro, 72, 87, 261

cinnamon, 73, 148

Apple Tarts, 105, 105

cinnamon cap mushrooms, 44, 44

cloves, 73

anti-inflammatory effects of, 194

Coat Conditioner, 261

=== PAGE 544 ===
Coat Refresher Skin Spray, 266, 267

coconut, 32

Brazilian Chicken, 230, 231

Carrot Cake Cookies, 100, 100

flour, 101

Macaroons, 105, 105

Mango Curry with Whitefish, Lamb, and Egg, 220, 221

coconut oil, 27

Cognition Cubes, 111, 111

coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10), 55, 77, 171

cognition:

apples for, 122

Choline Cognition Topper, 116, 116

Cognition Cubes, 111, 111

Cognition Tea, 149, 150

cranberries for, 111, 208

collagen, 133

colloidal silver–based wipes, 274, 274

commercial pet foods, 13–14, 72

“complete and balanced,” defining, 164

complete and balanced meals, 152–232

feeding for life stages and activity levels, 155, 157–60

food prep for, 163, 163–64

formulation of, 154

four ways to cook (or not cook), 166–67

how to change animals’ diet to, 160

notes on specific ingredients in, 161–62

preparing vitamin and mineral supplements in, 164, 164

storing, freezing, thawing, and reheating, 167

swapping out or skipping ingredients in, 162

see also beef; chicken; fish; lamb; pork; specific ingredients

constipation, Microbiome Morsels to help with, 90, 90

cookies, 98–106

Apple Cinnamon Tarts, 105, 105

Banana Honey Tea Biscuits, 104, 104

Carrot Cake, 100, 100

=== PAGE 545 ===
Coconut Macaroons, 105, 105

Dr. Holly Ganz’s Prebiotic, 106, 106

Ginger Bones, 102, 102

Good Old-Fashioned Dog Biscuits, 99, 99

Green Banana Biscotti, 96, 97

Herbed Cottage Crumpets, 104, 104

Rustic Seed Snacks (Canine “Crackers”), 103, 103

three-ingredient, 104–5

types of flour or nut butter for, 101

cordyceps, 45, 45

Core Longevity Toppers (CLTs), 32–33

cottage cheese:

Herbed Cottage Crumpets, 104, 104

Low-Fat Turkey Bites, 89, 89

Tandoori Topper, 121, 121

cranberry(ies), 32

for cognition, 208

Cognition Cubes, 111, 111

for oral health, 217

Pork Pumpkin Patch, 208–9, 209

Sardine Chutney, 117, 117

cream cheese:

Curcumin, 126, 126

Pill Pouch, Savory, 85, 85

cremini (white or button mushrooms), 44, 44, 46, 46–47

Crock-Pots, 19, 19

cucumbers, 32

Beef and Chicken Gyros, 194, 195

Berry Beef and Chicken Salad, 186, 187

Garden-Fresh Goodness, 170, 171

Vegetable Wax Remover for, 21

cucurbitacin, 32, 187

cumin, 72, 255

curcumin, 72, 125, 126, 180

Cream Cheese, 126, 126

Curry, Mango Coconut, with Whitefish, Lamb, and Egg, 220, 221

=== PAGE 546 ===
curry powders, 221

cytokines, 43, 72, 73, 141

D

dandelion(s), 58–61

greens, in Beef and Chicken Forager’s Delight, 188, 188–89

Gut Cubes, 114, 114

Oil and Salve, 270, 271

teas, 151

for topical treatments, 59

dehydrated snacks, see jerkies and dehydrated snacks

dehydrators, 19, 79

deodorizers:

carpet powder, 250

fabric, 249

room, 249

detox delights (foods), 33

Detox Delights (recipe), 87, 87

Detox Tea, 149, 150

Deviled Eggs, Avocado, 86, 86

dietary sensitivities, 91

dill, 255

DIM (3,3’-Diindolylmethane), 80

Disinfectant Spray, 239

Tub/Tile/Sink, 240

disinfecting food and water bowls, 16

Dr. Holly Ganz’s Prebiotic Cookies, 106, 106

Dog Biscuits, Good Old-Fashioned, 99, 99

Dryer Sheets, 248

duck eggs, 50

E

ears, cleaning, 270, 274

Ear Cleaner, 268, 268

Edible Tennis Balls, 134, 134, 135

=== PAGE 547 ===
egg(s), 48–53, 162

anatomy of, 48

Avocado Deviled, 86, 86

Beef and Broccoli, Basic, 168, 169

cooking or serving raw, 50–51, 51

freshness tests for, 53

Lamb, Whitefish and, Supreme, 226, 226–27, 227

Mango Coconut Curry with Whitefish, Lamb and, 220, 221

storing, 53

toppers, protein content of, 49, 49

types of, 50

yolks, pastured vs. factory-farmed, 53

Eggshell Calcium Powder (recipe), 52, 52

eggshell powder (ingredient), 161

enrichment activities, 26, 115, 123

environmental pollutants, 130, 255

equipment, see kitchen tools and utensils

essential oils, 241

strength of fresh or dried herbs vs., 71

eucalyptus oil, 241

eugenol, 73, 194

eyes, cleaning around, 267, 274

Simple Eye Wash, 266

F

Fabric Deodorizer, 249

fats, 27–28

fennel, 33, 255

Belly-Soothing Broth, 142

fermented foods, 89, 123

Fiber Smoothie, 122

Filipino Tinola Chicken and Beef, 184, 185

finicky eaters, transition tips for, 34

fisetin, 32, 179

fish:

=== PAGE 548 ===
small, 54, 55–57, 56

Tomato, and Rice Stew, Traditional, 228, 229

toppers, protein content of, 49, 49

toxins and sustainability of, 57

see also salmon; sardine(s); whitefish

fish oil supplements, 56, 161

flavonoids, 28, 33, 72, 80, 111, 119, 163, 179, 183, 187

flea control, 264–65

Flea Shampoo, 262

Floor Cleaner, 244

Wood, 244

flour, types of, 101

fluids, 138–51

amount to feed, 138

Gingermeric Gravy, 148, 148

Root Vegetable Super Stew, 138–39, 139

see also broths; teas

folate, 32, 65, 77, 86, 180, 183

food allergies, 91, 226

food bowls, 16

food processors, 19, 19

food scales, 15

food storage containers, 18, 18

Forager’s Delight, Beef and Chicken, 188, 188–89

freezing and thawing food, 167

freezing fresh meat, 31

fresh food diets, myths about, 24

frozen treats, 107–14

Antioxidant Pupsicles, 110, 110

Blue Zone ’Sicles, 112, 112

Cognition Cubes, 111, 111

Dandelion Gut Cubes, 114, 114

Longevity Sprout Cubes, 113, 113

Lycopene Lickers, 108, 109

repurposing leftovers in, 110

ways to serve, 107

=== PAGE 549 ===
Fruit and Vegetable Jerky, 81, 81

Furniture Polish, 245

Fusobacteria, in gut, 29

G

garlic, 23, 24

gelatin (treats), 130–37

Bones (extra firm), 132, 132

brand differences and, 132

collagen vs., 133

customizing density of, 131

Edible Tennis Balls, 134, 134, 135

Frisbee, 131, 131

Gravy, 131, 131

Gut Gummies, 133, 133

health benefits of, 130

how to release from mold, 137

Jelly, 131, 131

Jiggler, 131, 131

Medication Marbles, 84, 84

Mix-and-Match Molds, 136, 136, 137

Tennis Ball, 131, 131

geranium oil, 241

GI distress, remedies for, 35

ginger, 73

Belly-Soothing Broth, 142

Bones, 102, 102

Brazilian Chicken, 230, 231

Mango Coconut Curry with Whitefish, Lamb, and Egg, 220, 221

Gingermeric Gravy, 148, 148

Glass Cleaner, 246

glass food and water bowls, 16

glass food storage containers, 18, 18

glucosinolates, 28, 192, 209

glutathione, 39, 40, 72, 80, 109, 180, 183, 191

=== PAGE 550 ===
glycation, 68

AGEs and, 68, 73, 166, 167

Good Old-Fashioned Dog Biscuits, 99, 99

goose eggs, 50

grapes, 22

gravy:

Gelatin, 131, 131

Gingermeric, 148, 148

Green Banana Biscotti, 96, 97

green beans, 32, 33

Bison Schnitzel with, 218, 219

Lebanese Lamb and Whitefish with, 224, 225

Greens Powder, Vitamin/Mineral, 127, 127

green tea, 149

grooming, 259–74

bathing, 259–63

Dandelion Oil and Salve, 270, 271

ear cleaning, 268, 268, 270, 274

eye cleaning, 266, 267, 274

freshening pet’s stinky fur, 266

itchy skin relief, 261, 263

oral hygiene, 269, 269

paw care, 272, 272–73, 273

pest control, 262, 264–65

Pet Wipes, 274, 274

Ground Meat Jerky, 80,

ground meat labels, 164

grout, cleaning, 240

Gumbo, Beef and Chicken, 190, 191

Gut Gummies, 133, 133

gut health, 33

green bananas for, 97

see also microbiome

Gyros, Beef and Chicken, 194, 195

=== PAGE 551 ===
H

Hawaiian Luau, Pork, 204, 205

heart (organ meat), 77

heart health, 148

hen of the woods (maitake mushrooms), 43, 43

HEPA filters, 251, 254, 255

herbal tea, 149

Herbed Cottage Crumpets, 104, 104

herbs, 62–63, 70–73, 162

freezing, 71, 71

herring, 56

Himalayan Tartary buckwheat flour, 101

Good Old-Fashioned Dog Biscuits, 99, 99

Hogan, Rita, 151

housecleaning products, 236–56

Air Purifier, DIY, Budget-Friendly, 254

All-Purpose Cleaner, 238

Ant Spray, 256

Carpet Cleaner, 251

Carpet Powder Deodorizer, 250

Disinfectant Spray, 239

Dryer Sheets, 248

Fabric Deodorizer, 249

Floor Cleaner, 244

Furniture Polish, 245

Glass Cleaner, 246

for grout, 240

Laundry Detergent, 247

Scented Room Spray, 246

Scrub Cleaner, 242

Simmer Pot Home Scents, 252

for stained surfaces, 240

Stone Counter Cleaner, 243

Tub/Tile/Sink Disinfecting Spray, 240

Wood Floor Cleaner, 244

=== PAGE 552 ===
I

ice cube trays, 19, 19

freezing herbs in, 71, 71

freezing toppers in, 26, 122; see also frozen treats

Immune Broth, 143

Mushroom, Super-Immune, 146, 147

Immune Puree, 88, 88

Indian (flavors):

Beef, 180, 181

Tandoori Topper, 121, 121

Indole-3-carbinol, 32, 213

inspect pests, fighting, 264–65

interactive toys, 26

iodine, 124, 189

iron, beef spleen for, 192

itchy skin:

carbonated water as remedy for, 261

Probiotic Rinse for, 263

Shampoo for, 261

J

Jelly, Gelatin, 131, 131

jerkies and dehydrated snacks, 76–82

broccoli, dehydrating, 80, 80

Chicken, Manuka-Glazed, 82, 82

Fruit and Vegetable, 81, 81

Ground Meat, 80, 80

Meat, 78, 78–79, 79

Jerusalem artichoke(s) (sunchokes), 22

Beef and Chicken Forager’s Delight, 188, 188–89

Chips, 92–93, 93

Root Vegetable Super Stew, 138–39, 139

jicama, in Beef Mexican Fiesta, 174, 175

Jiggler, Gelatin, 131, 131

=== PAGE 553 ===
K

kale, 32

Bison Hash, 212, 213

Brazilian Chicken, 230, 231

kefir, 123

kelp, 171, 189

kidneys, 77

kitchen tools and utensils, 15–19, 19

cutting boards, 15

food and water bowls, 16, 16

food scales, 15

food storage containers, 18, 18

water filters, 17

kiwi, 33

L

lamb:

Mango Coconut Curry with Whitefish, Egg and, 220, 221

Upgraded Shepherd’s Pie with Whitefish, 222, 223

Whitefish, and Egg Supreme, 226, 226–27, 227

and Whitefish with Green Beans, Lebanese, 224, 225

Laundry Detergent, 247

leaky gut (dysbiosis), 91

Lebanese Lamb and Whitefish with Green Beans, 224, 225

Leftover Longevity Broth, 144, 144

leftovers:

feeding to pets, 25

making frozen treats with, 110

legumes, 183

lemon oil, 241

lentinan, 43, 146

lick mats, 16, 26, 122

life stages, feeding for, 155

linoleic acid (LA), 27

Lion’s Mane Mushroom Powder, 128, 128–29

=== PAGE 554 ===
lion’s mane mushrooms (yamabushitake), 42, 42, 129

litter boxes, 255

liver, 77

bison, in Bison Autumn Harvest, 216, 217

chicken, in Microbiome Morsels, 90, 90

Longevity Broth, Leftover, 144, 144

Longevity Sprout Cubes, 113, 113

Low-Histamine Bone Broth, Quick and Easy, 145

lycopene, 33, 189, 225

Lycopene Lickers, 108, 109

M

macadamia, 22

mackerel, 56

magnesium, 32, 162

maitake mushrooms (hen of the woods), 43, 43

manganese, 32, 64, 73, 77, 103, 162, 194, 221

Mango Coconut Curry with Whitefish, Lamb, and Egg, 220, 221

Manuka-Glazed Chicken Jerky, 82, 82

marshmallow root powder, 35

Meat Jerky, 78, 78–79, 79

Ground Meat, 80, 80

Meatless Morsels, 91, 91

Meat Loaf for Everyone!, 202–3, 202–3

Medication Marbles, 84, 84

Mediterranean diet, 194

medium-chain triglyceride (MCT) oil, 88

Mexican Fiesta, Beef, 174, 175

microbiome, 4, 5, 11, 25, 36, 40, 42, 43, 58, 70, 93, 105, 115, 153, 183, 194,

206, 234

importance of, 29–30

Microbiome Morsels, 90, 90

Tabouli Biome Topper, 119, 119

see also prebiotics

micro-graters, 19, 19

=== PAGE 555 ===
microgreens, 68

mineral and vitamin supplements, preparing, 164, 164

Mix-and-Match Molds, 136, 136, 137

molds, toxic, see mycotoxins

mortar and pestle, 19, 19

mosquitoes, repelling, 241

DIY Mosquito Spray, 264

mushroom(s), 23, 33, 39–47, 41–47

Beef and Chicken Forager’s Delight, 188, 188–89

boosting nutritional benefits of, 47

Broth, Super-Immune, 146, 147

cremini (white or button), 44, 44, 46, 46–47, 47

exposing to sunlight, 47, 47

Immune Puree, 88, 88

medicinal properties of different species, 42–45

Powder, Lion’s Mane, 128, 128–29

mussels, 56

Beef and Chicken Surf and Turf, 200, 201

Beef Bourguignon with, 172, 172–73

mycotoxins, 23, 64, 67, 68, 87, 101

myths and misconceptions, 22–28

N

neem oil, 241, 262, 265

nori, 33

nut butters:

Cognition Cubes, 111, 111

types of, 101

nutmeg, 70

nutrition, basics of, 11–12

nutritional yeast, 161, 180

O

oat flour, in Dr. Holly Ganz’s Prebiotic Cookies, 106, 106

okra, in Beef and Chicken Gumbo, 190, 191

=== PAGE 556 ===
olive oil, 28

omega-3 fatty acids (DHA and EPA), 2, 27, 32, 55, 56, 56, 88, 101, 161

chicken’s high omega-6 content and, 194, 226

in eggs, 50

omega-6 fatty acids, 27, 194, 226, 231

onions, 22

oral health, cranberries for, 217

oral hygiene, 269, 269

orange oil, 241

oregano, 73

organ meats, 77

overweight animals, 160

oxalates, 28, 33, 101

oyster mushrooms, 43, 43

oysters, 56

Argentinian Beef with Chimichurri, 176, 177

Beef and Chicken Surf and Turf, 200, 201

for zinc, 162, 176

P

Pad Thai Topper, 120, 120

pak choi (bok choy), in Chinese Beef and Chicken Stir-Fry, 192, 193

papain, 33, 231

papaya, 33

Brazilian Chicken, 230, 231

Filipino Tinola Chicken and Beef, 184, 185

parchment paper, 19, 19

parsley, 72, 255

Tabouli Biome Topper, 119, 119

parsnips, 255

Root Vegetable Super Stew, 138–39, 139

Upgraded Shepherd’s Pie with Whitefish, 222, 223

Paw Protector Wax, 272

Paw Soak, 273, 273

peanut butter, 101

=== PAGE 557 ===
Dr. Holly Ganz’s Prebiotic Cookies, 106, 106

peanut sprouts, 65, 67, 120

Pad Thai Topper, 120, 120

pea powder or pea protein powder, 183

peas, 32

Beef Spring Flavors, 182, 183

pecans, in Carrot Cake Cookies, 100, 100

pectin, 33, 97, 105, 122, 206

pennyroyal oil, 241

peppermint, in Tabouli Biome Topper, 119, 119

peppermint oil, 241

peppers, bell, 32, 33

red, in Garden-Fresh Goodness, 170, 171

Vegetable Wax Remover for, 21

periodontal disease, 269

pest control, 262, 264–65

Ant Spray, 256

DIY Mosquito Spray, 264

DIY Pest Spritz, 265

essential oils for, 241

Flea Shampoo, 262

Pet Wipes, 274, 274

phosphorus, 161

phthalates, 18, 234

picky eaters, cooking for, 167

pill pouches, 84–85

Medication Marbles, 84, 84

Sneaky Easy, 85, 85

Pinches of Prebiotics, 117, 118

pineapple, 32

anal glands and, 122

Fiber Smoothie, 122

Pork Hawaiian Luau, 204, 205

pizza cutters, 19, 19

plants, potted, indoor pollutants removed by, 255

plastic food and water bowls, 16

=== PAGE 558 ===
plastic food storage containers, 18

pollutants, indoor, removing, 255

polyacetylenes, 32, 72, 87, 222

polyphenols, 12, 20, 28, 39, 42, 47, 58, 64, 72, 73, 105, 109, 114, 120, 122,

149, 163, 209

pomegranate, 32, 197

Ruby Red Beef and Chicken, 196, 197

poop test, 35

pork, 23

Hawaiian Luau, 204, 205

Meat Loaf for Everyone!, 202–3, 202–3

Pumpkin Patch, 208–9, 209

“Roast” with Apples, 206, 207

Stew, “Rojões de Porco” Portuguese, 210, 211

portobello mushrooms, 44, 44, 46, 46–47

Portuguese:

“Canja” Chicken Stew, 232, 233

Pork Stew, “Rojões de Porco,” 210, 211

Traditional Fish, Tomato, and Rice Stew, 228, 229

potatoes, in “Canja” Chicken Stew, 232, 233

prebiotics, 11, 30, 33, 35, 39, 43, 58, 77, 97, 104, 105

Dr. Holly Ganz’s Prebiotic Cookies, 106, 106

Pinches of (topper), 117, 118

Probiotic Rinse for Itchy Pets, 263

produce, 20–21

organic, choosing, 20

washing, 20–21

protein, bioavailability of, 49

psyllium, 90, 122

Fiber Smoothie, 122

pumpkin, 33, 35

Ginger Bones, 102, 102

Low-Fat Turkey Bites, 89, 89

Patch, Pork, 208–9, 209

Pill Pouch, 85, 85

pumpkin seeds, 32

=== PAGE 559 ===
punicalagins, 32, 197

puppies, feeding, 155, 158

Q

quail eggs, 50

R

radicchio, in Bison Buddha Bowl, 214, 215

radish sprouts, 65

Recker, Susan, 156

reheating food, 167

reishi mushrooms, 42, 42

resveratrol, 65, 120

Rice, Fish, and Tomato Stew, Traditional, 228, 229

“Rojões de Porco” Portuguese Pork Stew, 210, 211

room deodorizer, 249

Root Vegetable Super Stew, 138–39, 139

rosemary, 23, 72, 143

rubber storage containers, 18

Ruby Red Beef and Chicken, 196, 197

Rustic Seed Snacks (Canine “Crackers”), 103, 103

rutabaga, in Root Vegetable Super Stew, 138–39, 139

S

salmon, 23, 55, 56

Argentinian Beef with Chimichurri, 176, 177

Beef and Broccoli, Basic, 168, 169

Beef Bourguignon with Mussels or, 172, 172–73

Berry Beef and Chicken Salad, 186, 187

Brain-Building Broth, 143

Meat Loaf for Everyone!, 202–3, 202–3

Smart Spread, 123

salmonella, 16, 50

salt, 162

Saltwater Produce Soak, 21

=== PAGE 560 ===
sardine(s), 32, 54, 55–57, 112

Beef and Chicken Gumbo, 190, 191

Beef Mexican Fiesta, 174, 175

Blue Zone ’Sicles, 112, 112

Cranberry Chutney, 117, 117

Garden-Fresh Goodness, 170, 171

“Rojões de Porco” Portuguese Pork Stew, 210, 211

scallops, 56

Scented Room Spray, 246

Schnitzel, Bison, with Green Beans, 218, 219

Scrub Cleaner, 242

seafood mushrooms (shimeji or white beach mushrooms), 45, 45

Seed Snacks, Rustic (Canine “Crackers”), 103, 103

selenium, 32, 64, 77, 198, 226

shampoo:

diluting, for cats, 259

Flea, 262

for Itchy Skin, 261

Simple, 260

shears, kitchen, 19, 19

Shepherd’s Pie, Upgraded, with Whitefish, 222, 223

shiitake mushrooms, 43, 43, 47

shimeji (white beach or seafood mushrooms), 45, 45

shimofuri hiratake (aka black pearl mushrooms), 44, 44

shrimp, 56

Whip, 124, 124

silicone baking mats, 19, 19

silicone molds, freezing toppers in, 122

silicone storage containers, 18

Simmer Pot Home Scents, 252

slippery elm powder, 35

slow-cookers, 19, 19

Smart Spread, 123

Sneaky Easy Pill Pouches, 85, 85

Spector, Tim, 93

spices, 70–73, 162

=== PAGE 561 ===
spinach, 33

Filipino Tinola Chicken and Beef, 184, 185

Indian Beef, 180, 181

Meat Loaf for Everyone!, 202–3, 202–3

“Rojões de Porco” Portuguese Pork Stew, 210, 211

sprouts, 62–68

amount to serve, 63

how to grow, 66–67, 67

Longevity Sprout Cubes, 113, 113

types of, 64–65

stainless steel food and water bowls, 16

stews:

Brazilian Chicken, 230, 231

“Canja” Chicken, 232, 233

Fish, Tomato, and Rice, Traditional, 228, 229

Root Vegetable Super, 138–39, 139

stinky breath, Toothpaste for, 269

stinky fur, Coat Refresher Skin Spray for, 266, 267

stinky textiles, Fabric Deodorizer for, 249

Stir-Fry, Chinese Beef and Chicken, 192, 193

Stone Counter Cleaner, 243

storage containers for food, 18, 18

storing big batches of food, 167

strawberries, 32

California Beef, 178, 179

stress, chronic, 123

sulforaphane, 30, 32, 63, 64, 66, 68, 80, 139, 213

sunchokes, see Jerusalem artichoke(s)

sunflower (seeds), 32

butter, 101

sprouts, 64

Super-Immune Mushroom Broth, 146, 147

Surf and Turf, Beef and Chicken, 200, 201

sweet potatoes:

Beef and Chicken African Stew, 198, 199

Celebration Cake, 94, 95

=== PAGE 562 ===
Dr. Holly Ganz’s Prebiotic Cookies, 106, 106

Root Vegetable Super Stew, 138–39, 139

T

table scraps, feeding to pet, 25

Tandoori Topper, 121, 121

taurine, 48, 56, 77, 176

teas, 149–51

amount to feed, 149

Calming, 149, 150

Cognition, 149, 150

dandelion, 151

decaf green and black, 149

Detox, 149, 150

herbal, 149

Tummy, 149, 150

tea tree oil, 241

Tennis Balls, Edible, 134, 134, 135

thawing food, 167

thyme oil, 241

ticks:

removing, 265

repelling, 241

timing when your dog eats, 36

tomato(es), 32, 33

Fish, and Rice Stew, Traditional, 228, 229

Lebanese Lamb and Whitefish with Green Beans, 224, 225

tools, see kitchen tools and utensils

Toothpaste, 269, 269

toppers, 12, 13, 26, 31, 50, 75, 87, 88, 90, 106, 107, 113, 115–29

amount to feed, 12, 115, 122

Applesauce, 122, 122

Choline Cognition, 116, 116

comparing protein content of, 49, 49

Core Longevity (CLTs), 32–33

=== PAGE 563 ===
Cranberry Sardine Chutney, 117, 117

Curcumin Cream Cheese, 126, 126

how to serve, 118, 122

Lion’s Mane Mushroom Powder, 128, 128–29

mushrooms as, 39, 40

organ meats as, 77

Pad Thai, 120, 120

Pinches of Prebiotics, 118, 118

Shrimp Whip, 124, 124

Smart Spread, 123

storing, 122

Tabouli Biome, 119, 119

Tandoori, 121, 121

treats that can be used as, 87, 88, 106, 107, 113, 114

Ultimate 2.0 Turmeric Paste, 125, 125

Vitamin/Mineral Greens Powder, 127, 127

see also broths; fluids; teas

toxins, avoiding, 2, 18, 20, 237

foods toxic to pets, 22

myths about foods not toxic to pets, 23

toxoplasmosis, 255

training treats, how to make tiny shapes for, 99, 99

transitioning to healthier habits, 31–35

treat release toys, 16, 26, 123

treats, 12, 13, 74–137

bite-sized, 83–93; see also bite-sized treats

Celebration Cake, 94, 95

cookies, 98–106; see also cookies

frozen, 107–14; see also frozen treats

gelatin, 130–37; see also gelatin (treats)

Green Banana Biscotti, 96, 97

jerkies and dehydrated snacks, 76–82; see also jerkies and dehydrated

snacks

offering variety of new foods as, 75

organ meats as, 77

pill pouches, 84, 84–85, 85

=== PAGE 564 ===
training, how to make tiny shapes for, 99, 99

ultra-processed, 102

uses for, 75

see also toppers

tripe (stomach), 77

Tub/Tile/Sink Disinfecting Spray, 240

Tummy Tea, 149, 150

Turkey Bites, Low-Fat, 89, 89

turkey eggs, 50

turkey tail mushrooms, 43, 43

turmeric (root), 72

Belly-Soothing Broth, 142

Gingermeric Gravy, 148, 148

Paste, Ultimate 2.0, 125, 125

turnip, in Root Vegetable Super Stew, 138–39, 139

U

Upgraded Shepherd’s Pie with Whitefish, 222, 223

V

vacuuming, 251

Vegetable Wax Remover, 21

vinegar soak, to remove wax coatings, 21

vitamin and mineral supplements, preparing, 164, 164

vitamin C, 32, 33, 64, 65, 120, 171, 175, 222

vitamin D, 47, 50, 51, 112, 161, 172

vitamin E, 7, 32, 50, 64, 101, 175

Vitamin/Mineral Greens Powder, 127, 127

W

walnut butter, 101

washing food and water bowls, 16

washing organic produce, 20–21

water bowls, 16

watercress sprouts, 65

=== PAGE 565 ===
water filters, 17

watermelon, in Lycopene Lickers, 108, 109

wax coatings on vegetables, removing, 21

Weed Remover, 257

wheat germ oil, 175

whisks, mini, 19, 19

white beach mushrooms (shimeji or seafood mushrooms), 45, 45

whitefish:

Dr. Holly Ganz’s Prebiotic Cookies, 106, 106

Lamb, and Egg Supreme, 226, 226–27, 227

Lebanese Lamb and, with Green Beans, 224, 225

Mango Coconut Curry with Lamb, Egg and, 220, 221

Upgraded Shepherd’s Pie with, 222, 223

windows, ventilation and, 255

Y

yamabushitake (lion’s mane mushrooms), 42, 42, 129

Lion’s Mane Mushroom Powder, 128, 128–29

yard care, Weed Remover for, 257

yogurt:

Beef and Chicken Gyros, 194, 195

Fiber Smoothie, 122

Smart Spread, 123

Tandoori Topper, 121, 121

Z

zinc, 50, 64, 77

oysters for, 162, 176

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 566 ===
About the Authors

Veterinarian KAREN SHAW BECKER’s deliberate,

commonsense approach to creating vibrant health for companion

animals has been embraced by millions of pet lovers around the

world, making her the most followed vet on social media. She has

spent her career as a small-animal clinician, empowering animal

guardians to make intentional lifestyle decisions to enhance the

well-being of their animals. Dr. Becker writes and lectures

extensively, and serves as a wellness consultant for a variety of

health-oriented organizations. She is the first veterinarian to give a

TED Talk on species’ appropriate nutrition, which has been a

lifelong passion for her. In 2023 she received the Stange Award for

outstanding professional achievement in veterinary medicine, the

highest award granted by the Iowa State College of Veterinary

Medicine.

RODNEY HABIB is a sought-after public speaker, filmmaker,

multiple-award-winning content creator, founder of Planet Paws—

the world’s largest pet health page on Facebook—and, most

important, a pet parent. Driven by a passion for citizen science,

Habib established the nonprofit organization Paws for Change

Foundation to further education and research in the area of animal

nutrition and lifestyle. Habib’s first TED Talk on pet health stands

as the highest-viewed TED Talk in history pertaining to dogs. He

was recently honored by the Canadian government as having one

of the most influential platforms in Canada.

=== PAGE 567 ===
Discover great authors, exclusive offers, and more at hc.com.

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 568 ===
Also by Dr. Karen Shaw Becker and

Rodney Habib

The Forever Dog

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 569 ===
OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 570 ===
Copyright

As of the date of publication, all recipes meet current AAFCO and FEDIAF

standards, except where noted.

This book contains advice and information relating to animal health care

and nutrition. This information is for educational purposes only and is not

intended to replace the advice of your own veterinarian or animal health

professional. If you know or suspect that your pet has a health problem, it is

recommended that you seek your veterinarian’s advice before embarking on

any nutritional program or treatment. All efforts have been made to ensure

the accuracy of the information contained in this book as of the date of

publication. The publisher and the authors disclaim liability for any medical

outcomes that may occur as a result of applying the methods suggested in

this book. Applying suggestions in this book does not constitute a

veterinary-patient-client relationship.

THE FOREVER DOG LIFE. Copyright © 2024 by Planet Paws Media, Inc. All

rights reserved under International and Pan-American Copyright

Conventions. By payment of the required fees, you have been granted the

nonexclusive, nontransferable right to access and read the text of this e-

book on-screen. No part of this text may be reproduced, transmitted,

downloaded, decompiled, reverse-engineered, or stored in or introduced

into any information storage and retrieval system, in any form or by any

means, whether electronic or mechanical, now known or hereafter invented,

without the express written permission of HarperCollins e-books.

FIRST U.S. AND CANADIAN EDITIONS

Cover photographs courtesy of the authors (dog); © Getty Images (Cape)

=== PAGE 571 ===
All photographs by Rodney Habib and Bea Adams, unless otherwise noted.

Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data

Names: Becker, Karen Shaw, author. | Habib, Rodney, author. | Durand,

Sarah, contributor.

Title: The forever dog life : over 120 recipes, longevity tips, and new

science for better bowls and healthier homes / Dr. Karen Shaw Becker &

Rodney Habib ; with Sarah Durand.

Description: First U.S. and Canadian editions. | New York, NY : Harper, an

imprint of HarperCollins Publishers, [2024] | Includes bibliographical

references and index. | Summary: “In this guide, the authors of the #1

internationally bestselling The Forever Dog show how to create a

healthy, sustainable lifestyle and environment to help your dog live a

longer, happier, and healthier life”-- Provided by publisher.

Identifiers: LCCN 2024000657 (print) | LCCN 2024000658 (ebook) | ISBN

9780063314009 (hardcover) | ISBN 9780063314016 (ebook)

Subjects: LCSH: Dogs--Food. | Dogs--Food--Recipes. | Dogs--Health. |

Dogs--Aging.

Classification: LCC SF427.4 .B423 2024 (print) | LCC SF427.4 (ebook) |

DDC 636.7/085--dc23/eng/20240310

LC record available at https://lccn.loc.gov/2024000657

LC ebook record available at https://lccn.loc.gov/2024000658

Digital Edition JUNE 2024 ISBN: 978-0-06-331401-6

Version 05092024

Print ISBN: 978-0-06-331400-9

OceanofPDF.com

=== PAGE 572 ===
About the Publisher

Australia

HarperCollins Publishers Australia Pty. Ltd.

Level 13, 201 Elizabeth Street

Sydney, NSW 2000, Australia

www.harpercollins.com.au

Canada

HarperCollins Publishers Ltd

Bay Adelaide Centre, East Tower

22 Adelaide Street West, 41st Floor

Toronto, Ontario, M5H 4E3

www.harpercollins.ca

India

HarperCollins India

A 75, Sector 57

Noida

Uttar Pradesh 201 301

www.harpercollins.co.in

New Zealand

HarperCollins Publishers New Zealand

Unit D1, 63 Apollo Drive

Rosedale 0632

Auckland, New Zealand

=== PAGE 573 ===
www.harpercollins.co.nz

United Kingdom

HarperCollins Publishers Ltd.

1 London Bridge Street

London SE1 9GF, UK

www.harpercollins.co.uk

United States

HarperCollins Publishers Inc.

195 Broadway

New York, NY 10007

www.harpercollins.com

OceanofPDF.com

